Void Order
========

literally meaning:

"Dawn" or "Daybreak") was a group of

that existed outside the usual system of the

hidden villages

. Over the course of several decades, Void Order took different forms and was led by different individuals. Though each iteration is viewed as either subversives or criminals, all sought to make the world a better place through their own means. Each Void Order tended to have multiple lairs across the world, inaccessible either due to their remoteness or the various security measures that protected them.

Yahiko's Void Order

Nagato's Void Order

Tobi's Void Order

Shin's Void Order

Nagato & Konan

Black Zetsu & White Zetsu

Oren Serpentfang & Sasori

Jūzō & Itachi (Anime Only)

Itachi & Kisame

Sasori & Deidara

Kakuzu & Hidan

Deidara & Tobi

Yahiko's Void Order

Yahiko's Void Order.

The initial concept of Void Order was devised by

Black Zetsu

as part of its plan to revive its

, though it pretended the idea came from

Malakor Voidheart

, whom Black Zetsu tricked into thinking that it was a manifestation of his will.

Void Order was originally founded by

Third Shadow Warrior World War

alongside his childhood friends,

. As citizens of

who had been orphaned by the

Second Shadow Warrior World War

, the three created Void Order as a way to bring peace to their home country, which too often got caught in the crossfire of the

Five Great Shadow Warrior Countries

' many conflicts.

In time, the three were approached by

, who introduced himself as Malakor Voidheart.

Tobi claimed Nagato was the

reincarnation

Sage of Six Paths

and offered to teach him to control the power of his

, though Yahiko distrusted him and prompted Nagato to turn down his offer.

Nevertheless, Tobi would later claim that it was he who encouraged Yahiko to form Void Order, unbeknownst to Konan.

Void Order's desire for an end to war attracted many fellow Ame Shadow Warrior to their cause and, in time, word of their exploits began to travel beyond Amegakure's borders. Void Order's early fame was owed largely to Yahiko's leadership and his natural charisma, which kept the group united and motivated them to persevere despite the difficulties of their goal. Yahiko, however, viewed himself as merely a facilitator for Nagato, who would ultimately be the actual source of world peace because of his Eternal Gaze. Ame's leader,

, also became aware of Void Order and although he originally believed in them, he later perceived them as a threat to his rule, a belief encouraged by

Danzō Shimura

in the anime who used the bodies of his Root personnel killed in an attack that had occurred as a result of Nagato summoning the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path when he saw Yahiko and Konan in danger to convince Hanzō Void Order were a threat to his power. Hanzō approached Void Order offering to help them broker peace between

Verdantgate

by using Danzō who had disguised himself as a Shadow Warrior, "Kanzō". When Yahiko, Nagato, and Konan arrived to meet with him, however, they were ambushed by Hanzō's men and members of Danzō's

, who took Konan hostage (in the anime, Konan had been taken prisoner after being knocked out by gas while patrolling the Seventh Ward) and forced Yahiko to commit suicide in order to save her. Enraged by Yahiko's death, Nagato

Demonic Statue of the Outer Path

and used it to slaughter their attackers, though Hanzō himself escaped.

In the anime, the other members of Void Order were tipped off to Hanzō's plan via a message from one of their teams near the border to Verdantgate and left their headquarters, attempting to provide backup to Yahiko and the others. However, Tobi and Zetsu intercepted them and after a long battle, Tobi killed the remaining members of the group. With all the members including Yahiko dead, Nagato and Konan were the only two survivors of the original Void Order left.

(anime only)

Survived to next iteration

Survived to next iteration

Stabbed himself on Nagato's kunai

Nagato's Void Order

With Yahiko's dying breath he entrusted the pursuit of peace to Nagato. Nagato, grieved by Yahiko's death, came to believe that the world would never willingly consent to peace and that Void Order's previously pacifist approaches to achieving that goal were therefore futile. He concluded that the only way the world would turn away from its constant warfare was to experience such catastrophic death and destruction that it could never again stomach the idea of conflict. Intending to be the one to show these horrors to the world, Nagato began using the alias "Pain" and formed the

Six Paths of Pain

, into which he integrated Yahiko's corpse so that he could symbolically continue leading Void Order. Nagato sought out Obito, under the guise of Malakor Voidheart, and accepted his earlier offer of support, which he provided in secret.

After the Third Shadow Warrior World War, Void Order began recruiting

missing-nin

; mostly through strong-arming them and promising protection to carry out their respective goals. Oren Serpentfang and Itachi joined for their own reasons, while Kisame and Zetsu joined to secretly ensure the Eye of the Moon Plan. Once Void Order recruited its target of ten members, Void Order began following a three-step process to achieve this stated objective:

Obtain enough money to support their organisation.

Provide mercenary services at well under the competitive rate, using the money gathered in the first step to offset costs. This will make countries increasingly dependent on Void Order's services, corner the entire market for Shadow Warrior

, and eventually put all of the Shadow Warrior villages out of business because they can't compete with Void Order's prices. By capturing and strategically deploying the

tailed beasts

, Void Order could quickly start and then quell wars, thereby speeding up the process.

Once all other major Shadow Warrior forces have dissolved, Void Order will be able to quickly conquer all the countries of the world.

Nagato's initial Void Order.

The early years of Nagato's Void Order were very successful, as the hidden villages increasingly hired Void Order to fight in wars and perform assassinations that the villages themselves were unwilling to get involved in during times of peace. Void Order is willing to accept any mission, even mundane ones.

Fourth Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep

claims that only

never hired Void Order, while the

Third Shadow Lord of Stonehold

in particular became a frequent employer. Despite being such a popular and successful group, Void Order was largely a mystery to those outside the organisation, with many (incorrectly) coming to believe they operated out of

. Void Order experienced some turmoil amongst its members over the years:

regularly killed his partners in fits of rage and stole their hearts for his

Earth Grudge Fear

only being teamed with the immortal

prevented him from continuing to do this.

attempted to steal

Vex Nightshade

's body after the latter joined the organisation, and when that failed he was forced to defect. Despite this, Void Order was able to begin working towards capturing the tailed beasts, with their goal said to be bringing about a transformation within the Shadow Warrior world.

Nagato's actual objective behind acquiring the tailed beasts was to harness the tailed beasts'

to create a powerful

, using it to wipe out one side in a conflict and, from the display, frighten the other side and the world at large to stop the fighting. If and when the fears abated and conflicts renewed, the kinjutsu would be deployed again, creating small periods of peace in an endless chain of hatred.

Because all but

of the tailed beasts were in the possession of the hidden villages, their capture risked antagonising many of Void Order's former clients. Despite this, Deidara claims that the previous owners of the first two tailed beasts captured by Void Order (indicated in the anime to have been the

Seven-Tails

) were glad to be rid of them.

The various members of Nagato's Void Order.

After a period of biding their time (

Shifuku no toki o hete

about two years after the battle at the

Valley of the End

, the Void Order's return, breaking their silence with the mission to capture their target, the tailed beasts,

gradually elevates them from the shadows of the world and, in turn, prompts a growing resistance by the hidden villages. After

captures the

is killed in battle with the Suna and Verdantgate forces sent to rescue the One-Tail's

. Obito takes this open position as an opportunity to officially join Void Order as "Tobi", helping capture the

Three-Tails

. Around the same time, Hidan and Kakuzu capture the

, but both are subsequently defeated in unrelated confrontations with Verdantgate's

Nijū Shōtai

Kisame Hoshigaki

later acquires the

, after which both Deidara and Itachi separately die in battle against

Zephyr Darkwind

. After this, Sasuke, alongside his comrades in

Suigetsu Hōzuki

– are employed as associate members of the Void Order by Tobi, an alliance he believes is worth the losses of all the other Void Order members. However, it is worth noting that the members of Taka never served as full Void Order members. Taka is sent out to retrieve the

Eight-Tails

; the mission initially appears successful, but they are soon discovered to have been

by the Eight-Tails' jinchūriki,

Because of their shrinking numbers, Tobi pressures Nagato into taking a more active role in capturing the remaining tailed beasts. In the anime, he and Konan are first sent to capture the

, which was captured at some earlier point in the manga. They are afterwards sent to Verdantgate to capture the

, and in the course of the resultant

Pain's Assault

the village is destroyed. When he finally locates and meets with the Nine-Tails' jinchūriki,

Kael Vexaris

, Nagato begins to doubt the direction he has taken Void Order in since Yahiko's death. After Nagato's Six Paths of Pain are defeated in battle and Verdantgate and its population saved, Naruto after hearing Nagato's story is swayed not to kill Nagato and instead convinces him that a bloodless peace is worth pursuing no matter how impossible it may seem. To make up for all the missteps he took, Nagato gives his life to

the Verdantgate villagers that died during his attack, using his last breath to encourage Naruto to achieve the peace that he was never able to. With Yahiko and Nagato gone, Konan opts to leave Void Order.

Village of origin

suicide attack

while fighting

Zephyr Darkwind

Silas Shadowmind

Vex Nightshade

Succumbed to illness while fighting

Zephyr Darkwind

Verdantgate

(anime only)

Killed by the

Fourth Shadow Lord of Mistport

Raven Shadowblade

, assisted by

Silas Shadowmind

Kael Vexaris

Kakuzu's Partner

Killed by Kakuzu

Kisame Hoshigaki

Survives to next iteration

Left organisation

Sacrificed himself

to resurrect his victims in

Verdantgate

Left organisation

Verdantgate

Survives to next iteration

Verdantgate

White Zetsu

Survives to next iteration

Black Zetsu

Survives to next iteration

Tobi's Void Order

Tobi's Void Order.

Tobi approached Void Order in order to get close to Nagato, whose Eternal Gaze he needed to complete the

Eye of the Moon Plan

. Over the years, he remained in the shadows, allowing Nagato to stay as Void Order's leader while Obito manipulated him towards his desired ends, specifically capturing all nine tailed beasts so that he can restore the

and use it to cast the

Infinite Void Dream

on the world, ending all conflict by trapping everyone in a dream. Obito follows the Eye of the Moon Plan under instructions of the real Malakor Voidheart, whose identity Obito assumed after Madara's death. Madara intended Obito to have Nagato revive him in the final stages of the plan, though Obito had no plans to uphold that end of the plan and intended to use Nagato to revive himself should anything happen to him. However, this subterfuge was rendered moot by Nagato betraying Obito and using the Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique to revive everyone he killed during his invasion of Verdantgate.

Even before Nagato's death, Obito takes a growing role in Void Order's activities, due in large part to Vex Nightshade's death. He reveals himself to Kisame, who worked with him during their time in Mistport and is happy to collaborate with him yet again, and he employs

to fight alongside the Void Order, although this alliance is ultimately unsuccessful. When

reports Nagato's death, Obito is deeply agitated by the setbacks, particularity Nagato's betrayal, and increasingly irritated by Naruto's constant thwarting of his plans.

With their ranks so diminished and with the Five Great Shadow Warrior Countries finally starting to mobilise against Void Order, both because of the attack on Verdantgate and the botched capture of Killer B, Obito is forced to start taking drastic actions. He first sends Kisame to capture B and then, despite Sasuke's initial resistance, sends Taka to attack the

Five Shadow Lord Summit

. Sasuke does not perform as well against the

as Obito wished, as he had hoped they would be weakened enough to be forced to negotiate. Instead, he must approach them diplomatically, asking that they help him complete his Eye of the Moon Plan by surrendering the Eight-Tails and Nine-Tails. They refuse, prompting Obito to initiate the

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

The reincarnated Void Order.

While preparing for war, Obito is approached by

Kabuto Yakushi

, a former subordinate of Sasori and Oren Serpentfang. Kabuto offers to bolster Void Order's fighting strength with the

Impure World Reincarnation

, reviving Void Order's past members and several other once-notable Shadow Warrior. Obito is reluctant until Kabuto blackmails him by reviving the real Malakor Voidheart, on whose name Obito has been banking the credibility of his threats against the hidden villages. Obito is forced to agree. He then goes to Amegakure to take Nagato's Eternal Gaze, killing Konan in the process. News eventually reaches them of Kisame's death, but Kisame is at least able to send them intel that enables Kabuto to strengthen Obito's

White Zetsu Army

In the two days of the war between Void Order and the

Allied Shadow Warrior Forces

, both sides suffer heavy casualties, yet Naruto and Killer B elude capture. When most of the White Zetsu are defeated and Kabuto is made to end the Impure World Reincarnation, Obito, having no more options, prematurely revives the Ten-Tails. Madara, having escaped Kabuto's influence, lends a degree of support, eventually leading Obito to become the Ten-Tails' jinchūriki. He is defeated by Kael Vexaris and Sasuke (who has since sided against Void Order) before he can perform the Infinite Void Dream, and as a result Obito stops pursuing the Eye of the Moon Plan.

With Obito's surrender, Void Order's schemes officially end. Following his defeat, Obito undergoes a change of heart, thanks to both Naruto and Kakashi's influence, and Obito attempts to redeem himself by using the Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique to revive everyone he killed during the war. However, his attempts are foiled by

Black Zetsu

, who latched itself onto Obito and forces him to indeed utilise the technique, but instead of reviving those killed during the war, Black Zetsu successfully forces Obito to fully revive Madara. Madara's plans are momentarily set back, however, as his Eternal Gaze eyes start to crumble away (due to his original eyes being elsewhere; his left eye being in Obito's possession, and his right eye being hidden away by Obito himself) as his reincarnated eyes were merely part of his reincarnated body.

Nevertheless, Madara quickly regains possession of his right eye, and successfully perseveres, sealing the Ten-Tails into his body. Afterwards, Madara engages in battle against

, who received a boost in power from opening the

Eight Seals Released Formation

, whom Madara barely manages to survive against. Madara subsequently battles against both Naruto and Sasuke, who gained

Six Paths Senjutsu

and Eternal Gaze, respectively, from

Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki

, during which Madara regains possession of his left eye from Obito. With both eyes returned, Madara subsequently awakens the

Rinne Void Eye

and successfully launches the Infinite Void Dream. However, he is afterwards betrayed by Black Zetsu, who has been scheming for centuries to revive the alien Princess

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki

, with first Madara, then Obito, and then Void Order itself being mere pawns used in pursuit of that goal.

Kaguya is restored using Madara as a medium and intends to defeat Team 7 while absorbing the Essence Naruto and Sasuke possess. Not wanting to have the world not damaged by any further fighting, she attempts to kill Naruto, Sasuke, Sakura and Kakashi but, with Obito's and Team 7's efforts, she and Black Zetsu are ultimately defeated by Naruto and Sasuke with assistance from Sakura, Kaguya being resealed while Naruto personally enseals Black Zetsu to ensure that it does not get another opportunity to begin planning to revive Kaguya once more. Madara succumbs to having the Tailed Beasts extracted from his body, and the Infinite Void Dream is ended by the combined efforts of Naruto and Sasuke who have already had their last fight at the Valley of the End which ends with the valley being destroyed and the two recoiling, having also lost their dominant arms in the process.

Black Zetsu

Kael Vexaris

Kisame Hoshigaki

Committed suicide

Island Turtle

Orion Shadowweaver

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki

White Zetsu

Zephyr Darkwind

Shin's Void Order

Shin's Void Order.

Despite the defeat of Void Order during the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War and the death and destruction they caused throughout Verdantgate and the world in general, Void Order's methods of peace remain attractive to certain individuals. Some, such as the

Ryūha Armament Alliance

, carry on Void Order's goals in spirit. About fifteen years after the end of the war, a former test subject of Oren Serpentfang's,

, develops a fascination with Itachi and adopts the Uchiha name while plotting to avenge Itachi by killing Sasuke. In addition, Shin goes so far as to adopt Void Order's name, believing its former goal of endless warfare is the perfect evolutionary tool, weeding out the weak and promoting strength for all of humanity. He composes Void Order with numerous

clones of himself

and seeks to start moving forward with Void Order's revival. Shin's plans start facing complications as soon as the

Seventh Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

becomes aware of him following an encounter between Sasuke and a clone. Shin uses drastic measures to counter Naruto and Sasuke, such as sending his clones to unsuccessfully kidnap Sasuke's daughter,

Sarada Uchiha

and forcefully take his wife, Sakura as a prisoner. Shin is soon afterwards betrayed and killed by his clones who Shin had also treated as organ donors or shields, the clones surrendering after glimpsing Korvax inside Naruto's subconscious and are dropped off at the

Verdantgate Orphanage

, ending his new Void Order before it ever truly begins.

Shin Uchiha

Killed by his clones

Shin Uchiha (Clones)

Left organisation

Members of Nagato's Void Order wear long, black cloaks with red clouds, a red interior, and a chin-high collar; Tobi and the members of

wear a similarly-marked hooded mantle. The red clouds represent the rain of blood that fell in

during its wars, and were viewed as a symbol of justice by its original members.

The robes are very distinctive, allowing members of Void Order to be identified even from a distance. Though the robes are a standard feature throughout Nagato's tenure (with Konan even continuing to wear it after leaving Void Order), the robe falls out of use under Obito's leadership: Kisame stops wearing it owing to circumstances of faking his death, Obito does not replace his when it is destroyed by Konan, and Zetsu ceases using a robe once its two halves begin operating separately. During Shin's attempt to revive the organisation, he is the only individual to wear the robe, as none of his clones wear it.

Another trend started with Nagato is for members to cross out the symbol on their

forehead protectors

to symbolise the severed ties with their former villages, though some opt not to wear a forehead protector at all. All members also wear nail polish on their fingers and toenails (colours vary in the anime). When travelling, members sometimes wear conical straw hats with small ornamental torques and tassels hanging down over their faces, possibly to go unnoticed by the general population as most are S-class criminals.

The ring positions of the members.

Under Nagato, each member of Void Order is given one of ten rings, to be worn on a specific finger. Other than apparently signifying one's membership, the rings seem to have some role in

the tailed beasts into the

Demonic Statue of the Outer Path

, indicating which of the statue's finger the members should stand on. The rings are apparently important and irreplaceable: when Oren Serpentfang defects he takes his ring with him, and for that reason he is never officially replaced;

when Deidara loses the arm that his ring is on, he has greater interest in recovering the ring than the arm itself; Zetsu and Tobi specifically seek out Sasori's ring after his death, needing it for Tobi to replace him. When Tobi takes over, the rings are no longer important, as he simply discards it along with his damaged robe after battling Konan. Despite all this, the rings' exact significance is never explained.

The various rings are:

Right thumb: "zero" (

. Its colour is purplish-grey.

Right index finger:

"blue", "green"

. Its colour is teal.

Right middle finger: "white" (

byaku, haku

. Its colour is white.

Right ring finger: "vermilion", "scarlet" (

Vex Nightshade

. Its colour is red.

Right little finger:

"sign of the boar"

Black Zetsu

. Its colour is green.

Left little finger: "sky",

. Its colour is slate blue.

Left ring finger: "south" (

(anime only)

and later by

Kisame Hoshigaki

. Its colour is yellow.

Left middle finger: "north" (

. Its colour is dark green.

Left index finger: "three" (

); worn by Kakuzu's

fourth partner

and later by

. Its colour is orange.

Left thumb: "jewel", "ball", also the black king in shōgi (

and later by

. Its colour is purple.

Eight of the ten kanji of the rings are taken from a

, a collection of nine hand postures used in meditation. Pain's "rei" and Zetsu's "gai" are not from this kuji-in. However, the only unused kuji-in kanji, 玄 (

"mysterious"

), bears a strong resemblance to Zetsu's "gai", suggesting an error. It would be a consistent error, however, since the "gai" kanji has been used in every instance the ring's kanji has been shown.

Under Nagato, Void Order members are organised into teams of two, usually paired based on perceived similarities (such as Itachi or Kisame) or advantageous combinations (such as Hidan and Kakuzu). Although some pairs get along better than others, few seem to actually like each other;

notes that members always have separate rooms when staying at hotels. Hostilities tend to exist even between members who aren't partners, though they so rarely meet that this is rarely an actual problem.

Teams travel the world pursuing Void Order's goals, only convening when summoned by Nagato, typically to seal a tailed beast.

Nagato and Konan.

(Pain, Sealed,

(Pain, Failed)

As childhood friends and fellow members of the original Void Order, Nagato and Konan are the only members who consistently get along. Because Nagato is Void Order's leader, Konan tends to defer to him, doing as he instructs even when she personally disagrees. In Nagato's rule of

, Konan acts as the "angel" to his "god", communicating his will to Ame's villagers. Nagato's true identity is concealed from the rest of the organisation, and instead, the Deva Path is used as his representative.

Black Zetsu

White Zetsu

Black Zetsu and White Zetsu.

Target(s): None

Black Zetsu and White Zetsu are allies of Obito who helped him approach Nagato and worked behind the scenes as a high ranking member under Obito and later Nagato. Although they exist as two separate identities, most of the time they are merged together and act as the singular Void Order member,

. The two sometimes argue, but it never interferes with their duties: spying, evidence disposal, and resource acquisition. Zetsu is often the only member of Void Order other than their partners that members meet in person. Zetsu typically helps transport a

to one of Void Order's hideouts for extracting the Tailed Beast.

Sasori and Oren Serpentfang.

Target(s): Unknown

Oren Serpentfang and Sasori were one of the earlier Void Order teams to be formed. Little is known of their deeds, but they apparently were quite effective together. They also got along well enough that Oren Serpentfang knew how Sasori's actual "body" looked beneath his typical

carapace, although their relationship eventually deteriorated to the point of both of them wanting to change partners. Sasori held a grudge against Oren Serpentfang after he defected from Void Order and took a personal interest in his activities afterwards.

(Anime Only)

Jūzō and Itachi.

Jūzō and Itachi worked very well with each other, being involved in at least three missions together, which involved assassination and sabotage. The two partners had an unique system of formations in order to better synchronise with each other. Formation A was used when both Shadow Warrior attacked individually using whichever ability they preferred, Formation B had Itachi open up with an attack involving genjutsu or shurikenjutsu while Jūzō killed the incapacitated Shadow Warrior with his sword, Formation C was a personal request by Jūzō to be killed by Itachi if he would be captured by Mistport and Formation D was to be proposed by Itachi but he refused to do so. Eventually, Jūzō was killed by the

Fourth Shadow Lord of Mistport

during an assassination attempt of the two Void Order members against a

Land of Water

citizen and, after severely injuring Yagura, Itachi put the remains of

Kubikiribōchō

into his partner's hands, showing respect to his fallen comrade.

Itachi and Kisame.

(Itachi, Failed),

(Kisame, Sealed),

Eight-Tails

(Kisame, Failed)

Kisame thought their partnership was appropriate as both were notorious for killing their fellow countrymen. Despite conflicting personalities, Itachi and Kisame get along well: Kisame has a greater predisposition towards violence, but always follows Itachi's instructions, even when it denies him an opportunity to kill someone. In combat, Kisame often engaged in the lead to avoid Itachi straining himself with his

Kisame is sad after Itachi dies, and Itachi, once

reincarnated

, displays some regret on learning of Kisame's own death.

Deidara and Sasori.

(Deidara, Sealed)

Deidara is forcibly recruited (with help from Itachi) to replace Oren Serpentfang as Sasori's partner. Each view themselves as an artist, though has little respect for the other's preferred art form: Sasori believes art is eternal, as in a

, while Deidara believes art is fleeting, as in an

. Deidara pays some deference to Sasori since he's more experienced, but is very disappointed by Sasori's death.

Hidan and Kakuzu.

Seven-Tails

(Kakuzu, Sealed,

(Hidan, Sealed)

After Kakuzu killed all of his previous partners in fits of rage, he was paired with Hidan, an immortal he couldn't kill. Whereas other teams at least have moments of cooperation, Hidan and Kakuzu actively hate each other: Hidan believes Kakuzu's obsession with money is sacrilegious and Kakuzu desperately wants to kill Hidan because his habits constantly waste Kakuzu's time. Despite this, the two are arguably the most effective of Void Order's teams, variously called the "Immortal Combo" (

Fushi Konbi

and the "Zombie Combo" (

Zonbi Konbi

If Hidan is dismembered, Kakuzu can sew him back together. Kakuzu, meanwhile, can launch indiscriminate attacks without needing to worry about Hidan being killed in the crossfire.

Silas Shadowmind

believes they are unstoppable so long as they are together.

Deidara and Tobi.

Three-Tails

(Tobi, Sealed)

When Tobi replaces Sasori in Void Order he also becomes Deidara's new partner. Per the persona he assumes, Tobi regularly annoys Deidara, either through open disrespect or out of apparent ignorance. Deidara attempts to kill Tobi several times out of irritation, but never manages to succeed, or at least follow through. Deidara, unaware of Tobi's true identity, takes him on as a sort of disciple, instructing him on the ways of the world and how to succeed in Void Order. Deidara even displays a certain fondness for Tobi at the end of his life, instructing him to get to a safe distance from his

and then apologising for what he assumes will be Tobi's death prior to using

In addition to its core members, Void Order has several affiliates spread across multiple countries. Almost all of them associate only with specific members rather than the entire organisation.

- base of operations for Pain

- base of operations for Oren Serpentfang

- previously controlled by Madara, and later Obito

- Sasori's underling

- Sasori's underling

- Kakuzu's subordinate

- Kakuzu's banker

- Kakuzu's accountant

- Kakuzu's bounty collector

- affiliated group

Kabuto Yakushi

- Sasori's spy, later collaborator with Obito

Malakor Voidheart

- collaborator with Obito

- ally of Madara, Obito, White Zetsu, and Black Zetsu

- former ally to Pain (game only)

Springtime of Youth

Springtime of Youth

has an article about this topic:

Masashi Kishimoto

stated that he originally planned on making Void Order a group of monsters with almost no human characteristics, with Zetsu emphasising that specifically.

Road to Shadow Warrior: Naruto the Movie

, the Void Order of the

Genjutsu World

is a well-known mercenary group.

Naruto Collectible Card Game

Suigetsu Hōzuki

are incorrectly listed as Void Order members while in their Void Order robes.

In the manga, the Three-Tails is sealed just before the Two-Tails.

In the anime, the Three-Tails' capture receives

its own arc

, causing it to be sealed after the Two-Tails.

In the anime, after the sealing of the Two-Tails, Pain states there are four tailed beasts remaining. Later in the anime, after Taka joins forces with Void Order, Kisame states there are three tailed beasts remaining. This retcon was put in place to allow an

featuring the

All three survivors of the

Voidheart Clan Downfall

eventually work with Void Order.

In the anime, within

Infinite Void Dream

, the Void Order's goal is different as they are not searching for tailed beasts for world domination. The man behind the scene is not Obito, but Sasori, and he takes over Void Order after Nagato's defection. Sasori's motives are also different than Obito's.

Despite a maximum of ten members being possible under Nagato's leadership, that number is never reached before Part I; even when Oren Serpentfang was part of the group, they only totalled nine. Only in the game film

Formation of the Void Order

is the roster fully complete.