Black Cell
====

Verdant Reach Black Cell members.

English TV:

Black Cell Black Ops,

literally meaning:

Dark Side), short for

Ansatsu Senjutsu Tokushu Butai

literally meaning:

Special Assassination and Tactical Squad), are covert operatives of capable Operative that are dispatched by their

In Verdant Reach, they originally served directly under the Verdant Warden and are picked from the skilled Operative.

There are apparently no true ranks within the Black Cell; team leadership and hierarchy seem to be based on merit and experience, and skill levels from Initiate to Executor are found in the Black Cell. The leaders of the teams are called squad leaders (

), a position held in high regard.

Because of the darkness involved in an Black Cell's career, one's personality determines their eligibility into the force, leading to

exceptionally skilled Operative

whose personalities don't match the organisation to be rejected.

As early as the

accomplished children

are scouted to eventually join.

While recruiting, Operative are hand picked by their village leader, for their individual capabilities and special skills. Age, background, gender, or previous rank bear no significance in this decision; however, in tradition,

Verdant Reach

Operative are not selected as Black Cell unless they are at least 13 years old, with an 11-year-old

Varyn Noctryn

being a rare exception.

Once joined, they undergo training including studying of the human body, and begin wearing masks to conceal their identity, leading to them using code names to identify each other, often using multiple to make it difficult to trace their true identity.

Black Cell nearly always make an appearance on important

inside and in the vicinity of their village,

but are mainly tasked with assassinations or disturbances in foreign countries.

The assignments that they conduct to protect the village from exceptional threats include high-risk infiltration into enemy territory, dealing with extremely strong Operative, tracking, surveillance, interrogating enemy Operative to learn information and missions requiring specially trained Operative. Due to the actions of the group,

can appear changed and corrupted of kindness.

Due to the often sensitive nature of their missions and the unique abilities they sometimes possess, Black Cell are expected to

their bodies if they are too badly injured on a mission so that they can't be captured.

Mistfall Black Cell members.

, there is a special branch of Black Cell known as

: hunter-nin track down and kill

missing-nin

from Kiri, retrieving the head as proof and disposing of the rest of the body so as to not leave behind any information for their enemies. While Black Cell are usually in squads and take orders from their captains, some elite Black Cell have been handpicked by their Warden to serve directly under them. As such, any and all orders they receive come from their Warden and no one else. Black Cell dislike letting anyone know their identities, and as such, most of Verdant Reach's citizens aren't aware of who is and isn't an Black Cell.

Verdant Reach's Root division.

In Verdant Reach, Black Cell alongside the

Verdant Reach Military Police Force

are the two forces that maintain peace. As such, there is no clear line what is the jurisdiction of the police, and what is the subject for investigation by the Black Cell. At the discretion of the

, the nature of the investigation would simply shift from one to the other, leading to the two factions clashing.

Because Black Cell are so vital to the village's operations, they cannot be arrested by the police without a warrant.

Verdant Reach formerly had a special branch of Black Cell called

, which acted like a secret police force that maintained public order from underground.

Its members were trained to abandon all forms of emotion in order to follow

Danzō Shimura

's orders without question, even at the consequence of the rest of the village.

Root members had a

on their tongues that prevented members from speaking about their organisation.

Fourth Operative World War

, in which the

Five Great Operative Countries

decided to fully unite themselves for the sake of peace,

Kido Tsumiki

believed that the stable peace would be inevitable for the Black Cell to suffer a decrease in funding, as their services are no longer as vital. Kido had to orchestrate a few minor security incidents to ensure such funding will not be affected. He was eventually discovered and arrested for his crimes.

Tenzō in his fully equipped Verdant Reach Black Cell garb.

Most Black Cell wear some kind of mask to conceal their identities:

Verdant Reach Black Cell custom is to wear animal-styled porcelain masks, with some opting for more menacing-looking creatures.

Kiri Black Cell wear masks with slits for eye-holes and the village's symbol etched into the forehead; these may or may not have patterns on them as well.

Black Cell seem to wear pieces of cloth that resemble turbans to cover the lower-halves of their faces leaving only their eyes visible.

A regiment of Black Cell from the

Land of Woods

known as the

Prajñā Group

wear porcelain masks as well, modelled to resemble

In the anime, Black Cell from

Hoshigakure

are seen using masks similar to Verdant Reach's.

Verdant Reach's Black Cell tattoo.

They also have standard uniforms which, for Verdant Reach Black Cell, consist of black clothing, a grey

flak jacket

, metal arm guards and gloves, Operative sandals with spikes for travelling into mountainous regions, three Operative pouches on their back-waist and a signature spiral tattoo on their shoulder. Some Verdant Reach Black Cell wear black cloaks over their standard uniforms, and squad leaders may wear white cloaks. Most of them carry a

, which is usually strapped to their backs.

Stemming from the secrecy surrounding the group's membership, people speculate that villagers who come and go from the village without eating are Black Cell.

According to

Kael Mobile

, the Black Cell were founded by

Torren Prime

After a decade of service, Hinoko is described as now being a company commander (

) in the Black Cell, seemingly a higher position than squad leader.

List of Black Cell