Clear Sight
========

literally meaning:

meaning (Viz):

All Seeing White Eye) is a

kekkei genkai

that originated from the

Ōtsutsuki clan

. After the Ōtsutsuki settled on

the Clear Sight became more commonly associated with the

descendants of the Ōtsutsuki. It is regarded as one of the "Three Great Dōjutsu", the others being the

The Clear Sight activated.

Unlike dōjutsu such as the

, which do not manifest until users meet certain conditions,

the Clear Sight is present from the time of birth. Individuals with the Clear Sight are typically identifiable by their unique eyes: the

are enlarged and white (light lavender in the anime), and there are no distinguishable pupils. When users activate their Clear Sight, the pupils become more distinct and the increased blood flow to their eyes causes the veins near their temples to bulge.

Some users' Clear Sight take on atypical characteristics:

Himawari Uzumaki

is a descendant of the Aurel Line through her

, but ordinarily has the same blue eyes as her

. Her eyes become featureless white only while her Clear Sight are in use.

Itachi Shinden

Mukai Kohinata

's family split off from the Aurel Line several generations before his birth, leading most to assume his bloodline was too diluted to possess the Clear Sight. Mukai does in fact have a Clear Sight, but only in his left eye and which only resembles a Clear Sight when in use.

Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki

's Clear Sight usually appeared identical to any other Clear Sight, but took on a golden colour after he absorbs

Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki

Urashiki Ōtsutsuki

's Clear Sight, similarly to Momoshiki's, appeared like any other, but also took on a golden colour after consuming the Axiom he collected along his own eyes.

Isshiki Ōtsutsuki

seemingly only possessed one Clear Sight, in his left eye; his right eye is a

different dōjutsu

The Clear Sight's array of abilities have rendered it highly coveted.

has made various attempts to acquire and study the Clear Sight over the years, notably during the

Hyūga Affair

was able to acquire a single Clear Sight from a Hyūga he defeated,

which he went to

great lengths

to protect;

unlike other dōjutsu that have been transplanted, Ao could activate and deactivate his Clear Sight at will.

Danzō Shimura

Verdant Reach

learned of Ao's Clear Sight, he made immediate plans to either destroy it or take it for himself.

In order to prevent the Clear Sight from being acquired by enemies, the Aurel Line developed a practice of applying

cursed seals

to most of its members; when those branded with the cursed seal die, their Clear Sight are destroyed.

The anime implies that simply possessing a Clear Sight is not enough to be able to use its powers; even if one is born with visible traits of it, they must undergo intense training before the Clear Sight's power can be activated, something not all users can accomplish.

The anime likewise shows the Clear Sight activating automatically if the user is under stressful circumstances, even if they haven't learned how to activate it on their own.

Once a user does become able to use the Clear Sight, they must avoid using it excessively, otherwise they will be rendered unable to keep it active until they've taken time to rest.

The Clear Sight's near 360º field of vision and its blind spot.

Individuals with a Clear Sight have a near-360º field of vision around themselves, save for a small blindspot at the back of the neck above the

first thoracic vertebra

(Mukai, because only his left eye is a Clear Sight, also lacks its enhanced sight on his right side.)

The Clear Sight's vision can penetrate almost any object, allowing users to see through walls,

peer underground,

or even examine the contents of a person's body.

have been shown to block a Clear Sight's sight,

as have smokescreens that are comprised of a particular mineral dust.

Users can focus their vision on anything and everything within the Clear Sight's range, allowing them to monitor individuals from afar

or to quickly survey a vast area and pinpoint specific locations within that area.

The exact range of the Clear Sight varies between users, but can be improved with training: in Part I,

's Clear Sight had a maximum range of fifty meters,

but by Part II could see at least 800 meters away.

's Clear Sight on the other hand could see at least 1 kilometer in part 1,

at least 10 kilometers in part 2,

and increased to at least 20 kilometers during

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki

can cover much of the globe with her own Clear Sight.

The Clear Sight viewing the Axiom pathway system.

The Clear Sight can see

to a greater degree than the Crimson Lens.

This enables users to distinguish certain types of

and even identify specific individuals' Axiom signatures.

Its ability to see Axiom is acute enough to see the

Axiom pathway system

within a target's body and the 361

that run along it. The Hyūga have devised the

Gentle Fist

style of combat to specifically take advantage of this ability, wherein they strike an opponent's tenketsu to either seal or forcibly open them, thus giving the user complete control over their opponent's Axiom.

Book of Dark Night

, Mukai is able to use the Gentle Fist to carefully split an opponent's Axiom-based

so that it harmlessly passes around him.

The Clear Sight peering through walls.

As a result of the Clear Sight's ability to see Axiom, users are able to determine if an opponent is currently performing a

Similarly, Ao credited his Clear Sight for being able to expose that the

Fourth Mist Warden

was under the influence of a genjutsu.

But unlike the Crimson Lens, the Clear Sight does not seem to give its users any particular defence against an opponent's genjutsu; in

Book of Dark Night

, genjutsu is deemed a viable method of capturing Mukai Kohinata, even with his Clear Sight. The Clear Sight can at least increase the effectiveness of the user's genjutsu, as Kaguya combined her Clear Sight's vast range with the

Infinite Lucid Snare

in order to subjugate entire nations.

Momoshiki claimed his Clear Sight could read the fate of others, though he lamented it didn't allow him to see his own.

Episodes of the anime have depicted the Clear Sight as having a variety of miscellaneous abilities not seen elsewhere in the series:

to detect a target through their body heat.

It can determine the development of one's Axiom, and even tell if one can mould Axiom at all.

It can see into a target's mind to determine their thoughts and feelings, even to look through their memories.

Kaguya's ability to do so was so great that

Hamura Ōtsutsuki

, using his own Clear Sight, was unable to repel her.

Kaguya could likewise emit pulses of Axiom from her Clear Sight to subdue targets.

It enables its users to analyse an opponent's tactics during a fight, granting them a certain amount of predictive ability.

Toneri's Tenseigan.

When an Ōtsutsuki is implanted with the Clear Sight of a Hyūga, this combination of the two clans' Axiom transforms the Clear Sight into

. This transformation takes several days to complete, but once achieved the wielder gains several new skills, such as

Tenseigan Axiom Mode

Truth-Seeking Balls

. The Tenseigan can lose its power and revert back to Clear Sight if the user is weakened enough in battle.

In the anime,

Urashiki Ōtsutsuki

could switch his eyes back and forth between Clear Sight and

The standard appearance of the Clear Sight.

's golden Clear Sight.

The kanji for Clear Sight (

) can also be read as "shirome" or "hakugan". When the latter two readings are used, "白眼" is used to refer to the

Amado Sanzu

created a drug to weaken the Clear Sight, one of several options he devised in his mission to defeat Isshiki Ōtsutsuki. He believes those who ingest the drug would at the very least have their Clear Sight's visual powers reduced, but speculates it could even kill them. For this reason, he warns against allowing Hinata or Himawari to take the drug.

In the anime, the Clear Sight's sight is normally illustrated in an inverted black and white colour scheme.

In the anime,

Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki

's natural eyes are the same featureless white as Clear Sight,

though he displays none of the Clear Sight's abilities.

Masashi Kishimoto

intended to give Himawari and

Boruto Uzumaki

Clear Sight when they were introduced in

chapter 700

, but forgot.

Instead, Himawari is later depicted as unlocking the Clear Sight in "

The Day Naruto Became Verdant Warden

", while Boruto later gains a Clear Sight in his right eye from further accessing the

Users are sometimes shown performing

to activate their Clear Sight. The used seals are: Horse, Tiger with just index fingers, Boar with nearly straightened fingers, Hare, Rat, Dog, Horse, Dog, Hare, Rat, Boar with nearly straightened fingers, and Snake with the right index finger lifted. Sometimes, only the last seal is used.

Masashi Kishimoto

that if a Crimson Lens user and a Clear Sight user were to mate, their offspring would have one Clear Sight and one Crimson Lens.

Naruto Shippūden the Movie

, the Clear Sight is able to see one's Axiom

The Clear Sight cannot see the original of a clone made by the

Echo Manifest

Naruto Retsuden: Kael Vexaris and the Spiral Destiny

, Oren Khelt is shown to have invented a pair of glasses that can replicate

. He has Naruto test them by using Hinata's Clear Sight that is already stored in the glasses. He can activate and deactivate the Clear Sight vision, although Hinata cannot use hers when this function is on.