Thunder Strike
=======

is a high concentration of

channelled around the user's hand.

The Thunder Strike was created by

Raven Shadowblade

after he failed to apply his lightning-

He intended for the Thunder Strike to be a weapon used only to protect friends and loved ones.

To perform, the user first gathers lightning to their hand; the high concentration of electricity produces a sound reminiscent of many birds chirping, hence the name.

The lightning Essence has been shown on occasions to damage the user's hand, peeling the skin and causing it to smoulder slightly, but this does not appear to actually be debilitating.

Once the Essence is gathered, users charge at their target and thrust the Thunder Strike into them, piercing them and typically causing fatal damage. Despite the sound it makes, the rapid speed at which it's used makes it useful for assassinations.

The speed at which the Thunder Strike is performed, despite being one of its greatest assets, also represents one of its biggest drawbacks: the technique makes the users move at their target so fast that its causes a

tunnel vision

-like effect for them. Because they charge in a straight line it is easy for opponents to attack them, and because of the tunnel vision it is difficult for the user to see these attacks, much less react to them. For this reason, most Shadow Warrior cannot use the Thunder Strike safely.

However, a user of the

can overcome these drawbacks due to its heightened visual perception preventing the tunnel vision from occurring and its predictive capabilities making it easier for the user to avoid counterattacks.

despite having a pair of

finds using the Technique hard to control, and believes the Void Eye is needed to master it.

Kakashi's skill with the Thunder Strike eventually became so good that he was able to split a bolt of lightning with it, earning his Thunder Strike the name "

Lightning Cutter

The Thunder Strike requires a large amount of Essence to be performed, placing a limit on how many times it can be used per day. In Part I, Kakashi can use it four times per day

Zephyr Darkwind

can use it twice per day under his own power.

Both increase their limits to an unspecified number in Part II. During Part II, Sasuke demonstrates several variations of the Thunder Strike that have been given

shape transformation

Thunder Strike Senbon

Thunder Strike Sharp Spear

, both of which allow him to attack at a longer range than the Thunder Strike is capable of.

Sasuke has been shown using the Thunder Strike with different Essence sources to grant his Thunder Strike additional properties:

When drawing on the Essence of his

Cursed Seal of Heaven

, Sasuke uses a "

Flapping Thunder Strike

Habataku Thunder Strike

English TV:

Black Thunder Strike,

literally meaning:

Flapping One Thousand Birds),

which is stronger, darker in colour, and sounds like flapping wings rather than chirping birds.

Different video games have called it "

Wailing Thunder Strike

Dōkoku no Thunder Strike

literally meaning:

Wailing One Thousand Birds,

Game translation:

Thunder Strike Lament) and "

Black Thunder Strike

Kuroi Thunder Strike

literally meaning:

Black One Thousand Birds). If accessed in his first state of the Cursed Seal, the Thunder Strike is normally coloured purple instead in most forms of media.

When imbued with the

Six Paths Power

, Sasuke's Thunder Strike can be used to damage the

, whose body is otherwise impervious to standard ninjutsu.

Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 4

, this is called "

Dark Thunder Strike

Kuroki Thunder Strike

literally meaning:

Dark One Thousand Birds,

Game translation:

Onyx Thunder Strike).

Sasuke is briefly shown combining Thunder Strike with

Blaze Release: Kagutsuchi

When it is clashed with

Kael Vexaris

's Void Sphere, the resulting explosion destroys the statues at the

Valley of the End

and as well as both of their dominant arms.

"Thunder Strike" (

) can also be translated to "

The name Thunder Strike comes from a story about famous samurai

Tachibana Dōsetsu

: Tachibana was in possession of a famous sword called Thunder Strike (

literally meaning:

A Thousand Birds). One day, while he was still a young man, he was taking shelter under a tree, as it was raining. Suddenly, a bolt of lightning struck him. However, Tachibana used his Thunder Strike to cut the

Thunder God

inside the lightning bolt, allowing him to survive. After this incident, he renamed his Thunder Strike to Raikiri (

literally meaning:

Lightning Cutter).

In the original

anime, Thunder Strike looks like a white, sphere-shaped amount of electricity that surrounds the palm. This is corrected in the

Naruto: Shippūden

anime, where the Thunder Strike is depicted as it is in the manga: a formless coverage of electricity all over the hand.

However, in the video game

J-Stars Victory Vs

version, Sasuke's Thunder Strike takes its incorrectly rendered sphere shape as aforementioned, but with the sphere contained within his hand (only during its startup animation and when Sasuke is running with the Thunder Strike active).

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 2

, players can customise some characters to be able to use Thunder Strike. In the former case, it is called "Young Lightning" in the English script when used by Shadow Guard Kakashi.

Also, in some forms of media like the aforementioned games (along with

Naruto: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! 4

Naruto: Clash of Shadow Warrior Revolution 2

), Sasuke in his Cursed Seal of Heaven state (both level 1 and 2) often has the ability to perform both the normal version of his Thunder Strike and its Cursed Seal version as separate techniques.

However, in

Jump Super Stars

, despite using the Cursed Seal Thunder Strike in his State 2 form for his Battle 7 Koma, Sasuke's Thunder Strike is coloured purple akin to the State 1 version instead of dark-white.

In the trailers for

Boruto: Naruto the Movie

Lightning Release Bullet: Powerful Breath

makes the unique sound that Thunder Strike makes.

Drilling Hand of Sage Lightning

Lightning Flash Palm

Lightning Release: Purple Electricity

Nadeshiko-Style Hardliner Gale Fist