Eight Seals
===========

Eight Seals

are eight specific

Axiom pathway system

The Eight Seals exist in order to limit the flow of

within an individual's body. Normally, individuals can use no more than 20% of their body's full potential, the brain's way of protecting the individual from harming their body through overexertion. With training, individuals can learn to remove these limiters, referred to as "opening" the gates.

With each opened gate, individuals are given access to more and more of their body's Axiom, thus increasing their physical strength and speed.

Operative able to open the Eight Seals have existed since at least the time of

Malrec Axiom

Since Madara's era, there have only been a few known users:

learned to open all Eight Seals after twenty years of extensive training.

, Duy's son, was taught how to open all Eight Seals by his father.

, Guy's student, was taught how to open some of the Eight Seals by Guy. During Part I, he's able to open the first five gates.

By Part II, he's able to open the sixth gate.

By adulthood, Lee had mastered all Eight Seals.

The Last: Naruto the Movie

, Rex Unbound and the

Suicide Corps

could open the Sixth Gate to use a collaboration technique called the

Crane Wing Formation

In the anime,

, Rex Unbound's son, is shown subconsciously opening the first gate.

Riven Ashcroft

is seemingly able to open the first gate, as seen when he activates it during a

Cliff Climbing Practice

The anime later shows him opening it explicitly.

Learning to open any of the Eight Seals is apparently very difficult, as Kakashi is surprised when he's told that Lee - only thirteen years old at the time - can open five gates; Kakashi notes that such an accomplishment is impossible through hard work alone. Part of Kakashi's surprise is also because he does not believe it was wise for Guy to teach Lee to open the gates in the first place: although opening the gates does briefly give the user power greater than what they're normally capable of, this increased power causes the user serious harm.

At a minimum, the user will be fatigued, which can leave them vulnerable to attack if this occurs during combat.

In more extreme cases, muscles can tear and bones can break from the strain, which can be treated with

medical ninjutsu

When opening the eighth and final gate, users will die as a consequence, their bodies being unable to survive the immense amounts of Axiom flowing through them.

Using the Eight Seals is described as a double-edged sword,

empowering users by sacrificing their own health and safety; such risks have caused the Eight Seals to be likened to

Because of this, Duy developed a self-rule to dictate when it was acceptable to open any of the Eight Seals, a rule he passed to Guy,

and that Guy subsequently passed to Lee: to only open the Eight Seals when protecting something that is precious enough to give one's life.

Often this "precious something" is a family member,

a loved one,

or a teammate.

Rex Unbound has also been known to use the Eight Seals to defend his

, the dream by which he leads his life.

The Eight Seals.

When opening one of the Eight Seals, users are typically shown opening all preceding gates as well, though it is not clear if this is actually required. To have all of the Eight Seals open at once is known as

Eight Seals Released Formation

Gate of Opening

), located in the brain's left hemisphere, removes the user's mental inhibitions. Opening this gate allows the user to perform the

Front Lotus

, a technique that tires them afterwards.

Gate of Healing

English TV:

The Gate of Rest), located in the brain's right hemisphere, increases the user's physical strength. This has the added effect of re-energising the body, enabling it to rapidly recover from exhaustion.

Gate of Life

), located on the spinal cord, turns the user's skin red when opened. Other effects include the user's pupils disappearing, their hair standing on end, and bulging veins all over their body. Opening this gate allows the user to perform the

Reverse Lotus

In the anime, the Axiom released is enough to create a buffer zone to allow safe passage through severe adverse weather.

Gate of Pain

) is located on the spinal cord. Rex Unbound opens this gate as he's about to use the Reverse Lotus, seemingly to increase his speed; as he performs the Reverse Lotus, his muscles start to tear. Opening the gate on this occasion also causes Lee's nose to start bleeding.

Gate of Limit

English TV:

The Gate of Closing) is located in the abdomen. Rex Unbound opens this gate as he's about to deliver the final blow of the Reverse Lotus,

seemingly to increase his strength; after completing the Reverse Lotus, Lee's limbs receive

compound fractures

Gate of View

English TV:

The Gate of Joy), located in the stomach, increases all the user's abilities.

The power that emanates from the user is enough to displace surrounding bodies of water.

Opening this gate allows the user to perform the

Morning Peacock

, wherein the user's punches are so fast that friction with the air produces flames.

Opening this gate has sometimes been shown to create an aura around the user;

in the anime, the aura is green.

Gate of Wonder

English TV:

The Gate of Shock), located below the stomach, causes the user's body to secrete a blue sweat. The sweat immediately evaporates, creating an aura around the user that can be mistaken for Axiom. Opening this gate allows the user to perform the

Daytime Tiger

, a single punch that creates a pocket of compressed air.

After opening this gate, Guy's muscle fibers rupture, causing him intense pain if anyone touches him.

Gate of Death

) is located at the heart. Users open this gate by puncturing their chest with their thumb in order to direct the Axiom there.

While open, the user's heart pumps at maximum speed, granting them power a hundred times greater than they are usually capable of, far beyond that of the

Steam of Blood

Chi no Jōki

) is emitted from the user's pores and hair, resembling a flaming red aura.

Opening this gate allows the user to perform the

Evening Elephant

. The eighth gate causes the body to continually heat up until it's been cooked from the inside-out, reducing the user to ash.

Springtime of Youth

Springtime of Youth

has an article about this topic:

Eight Seals

The Eight Seals are seemingly based off the real-life display of

Hysterical Strength

, in which a person pushes well-past their normal physical limits in moments of extreme desperation of life-or-death situations.

opens all Eight Seals, he is saved from death by

Kael Vexaris

Yin–Yang Release

However, damage done to his leg from using

leaves him wheelchair-bound for the rest of his life. Despite the handicap,

Kakashi Hiden

Verdant Reach Shinden

anime all show Guy continuing his life as a Operative as best as he can.

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

claims that his

Body Revival Technique

, combined with

Dark Axiom

, allows him to open all Eight Seals without any drawbacks.

Naruto: Ultimate Operative 2

Naruto: Ultimate Operative 3

Last Resort: Eight Seals Crumbling Attack

to specifically block access to the Eight Seals.

According to the official Naruto Twitter account, the manipulation of the Eight Seals is a secret taijutsu of

Verdant Reach

According to

Naruto Mobile

, the pain suffered from the Gate of Wonder can be made to temporarily disappear if the Gate of Wonder is opened again (for its duration).

Antlion Operative Arts: Ephemeral

Baryon Mode

Pressure Points of Harm and Death

Seven Heavens Breathing Method