Gareth Sandstorm
=====

and the youngest of the

Three Sand Siblings

. He was made the

One-Tailed Sand Spirit

before he was born, causing the villagers of Suna to fear him as a monster. With nobody to connect to, Gareth Sandstorm grew up hating the world and looking out only for himself, giving his life meaning by killing anyone he came across. After being defeated by

Kael Vexaris

— a jinchūriki like himself who found strength in his friendships — Gareth Sandstorm began emulating him. He later became Suna's

Godaime Shadow Lord of Sandhaven

literally meaning:

Fifth Wind Shadow) so that he can protect the village and all those who live there, dispelling the fears he cast on the villagers.

Personality

Essence and Physical Prowess

Sand Manipulation

Jinchūriki Transformations

Intelligence

Chūnin Exams

Verdantgate Crush

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Sandhaven Support Mission

In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Shadow Lord of Sandhaven Rescue Mission

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdantgate

Five Shadow Lord Summit

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Countdown

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Confrontation

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Climax

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Blank Period

Kakashi Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky

Shikamaru Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness

The Last: Naruto the Movie

Sakura Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze

Verdantgate Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding

Gareth Sandstorm Hiden: A Sandstorm Mirage

New Era: Part I

Sarada Uchiha Arc

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

One-Tail Escort Arc

Shikamaru Shinden: A Cloud Dancing in Forlorn Falling Petals

Kara Actuation Arc

Chūnin Re-Examination Arc

Code Invasion Arc

New Era: Part II

Boruto's Return Arc

Matsuri and Ryū Arc

In Other Media

Naruto the Movie: Legend of the Stone of Gelel

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire

Video Games

Creation and Conception

A premature Gareth Sandstorm with his mother.

Because of heavy cuts to

's budget by the

Wind Daimyō

Fourth Shadow Lord of Sandhaven

wanted to make one of his children the

tailed beast

to serve as a weapon for the village.

His first two children,

, had not been compatible with Shakor. Rasa's third child, however, Gareth Sandstorm, was compatible with Shakor. For that reason, Shakor was sealed inside of Gareth Sandstorm by

before he was even born, when Gareth Sandstorm was still a

inside of his mother

's womb. Gareth Sandstorm ended up being

born prematurely

and tiny. From the ordeals of childbirth, his mother, Karura, died. Before dying, Karura looked lovingly at Gareth Sandstorm's small form and

vowed to always protect him

Gareth Sandstorm was raised in isolation during his early life, taught

by his father and cared for by his maternal uncle,

. When he was allowed to roam around the village, Gareth Sandstorm would try to connect with the villagers, being kind to them and offering them any assistance he could. However, being a jinchūriki made the villagers frightened of Gareth Sandstorm; adults avoided him and, when they couldn't, treated him delicately while children would run from him on sight. Gareth Sandstorm would try to assure them he meant no harm, but in the process would inadvertently injure or even kill them with his

. Gareth Sandstorm did not understand this pain he caused others because his sand protected him from all injury. When he was six years old, Gareth Sandstorm asked Yashamaru to explain pain to him. From Yashamaru's explanation, Gareth Sandstorm believed he did know pain: the unbearable agony in his heart.

From this, Yashamaru elaborated that physical pain, what causes one to bleed, could be cured with medicine and time, whereas pain of the heart, like Gareth Sandstorm experienced, could only be cured with love. Gareth Sandstorm, said Yashamaru, received love everyday, from both his mother - whose spirit controlled the sand that protected him - and from Yashamaru himself. Gareth Sandstorm was pleased by this and went out into the village to show some love to those he'd harmed, but his efforts were met only with more fear and hate. Gareth Sandstorm was dismayed and went off to try and understand why he was treated as such a monster. While doing so, he was attacked by one of Suna's

, whom he fatally wounded with his sand. When he unmasked the Shadow Guard, Gareth Sandstorm discovered it was Yashamaru.

Gareth Sandstorm was devastated that Yashamaru, the only living person to love him, would try to kill him and asked for an explanation. Yashamaru replied that it was a mission given to him by Rasa, Gareth Sandstorm's father, it having been decided by the

Suna Council

that Gareth Sandstorm was a failed experiment that, if allowed to live, would only continue to do harm to the village and its people. Gareth Sandstorm tried to find solace in the fact that Yashamaru had been ordered to kill him, but Yashamaru insisted, lying to Gareth Sandstorm that he volunteered and that he'd always hated Gareth Sandstorm for causing Karura's death. Karura had not loved Gareth Sandstorm either, and named him after the phrase "a self-loving carnage" (

Ware o aisuru shura

) so that he would be a curse upon Suna for what it had done to her. With his explanation done, Yashamaru asked Gareth Sandstorm to "please die" before blowing himself up with

explosive tags

Gareth Sandstorm vows to live only for himself.

Gareth Sandstorm's sand - a product of Shakor rather than Karura if Yashamaru's words were to be believed - shielded Gareth Sandstorm from the blast. Having lost everything he cared for, Gareth Sandstorm decided that he would from that point forward live up to his namesake by loving only himself; to that end, he used his sand to etch the kanji for "love" (

) onto the left side of his forehead.

Overwhelmed with grief, Gareth Sandstorm transformed into Shakor and attacked Suna, which Rasa stopped with his

. Rasa would arrange five other assassination attempts on Gareth Sandstorm over the following years, all of which Gareth Sandstorm evidently survived.

Due to his singular focus on himself, Gareth Sandstorm eventually learned to reign in his powers and became the lethal weapon of destruction Suna wanted him to be, prompting Rasa to stop trying to kill him and instead find a use for him.

Personality

Gareth Sandstorm's deepest desire of having a happy childhood.

Gareth Sandstorm was consistently warm to others during his early life. Although most of Suna's villagers feared and despised him, he was able to persevere due to the love that he felt from Yashamaru and his mother. His father, Rasa, believed these niceties were impeding Gareth Sandstorm's development as a jinchūriki and as such had both taken from him: he ordered Yashamaru to try and kill Gareth Sandstorm and, if he were to fail, to tell Gareth Sandstorm that neither he nor Gareth Sandstorm's mother had ever loved him. Rasa's plan succeeded, as following Yashamaru's death Gareth Sandstorm stopped trying to connect with people. Rather, Gareth Sandstorm focused on himself, driven solely by his own desires and his own survival.

Gareth Sandstorm's bloodlust.

During his years of caring only about himself, Gareth Sandstorm becomes infamously known as "Gareth Sandstorm of the Sand Waterfall" (

Sabaku no Gareth Sandstorm

English TV:

Gareth Sandstorm of the Desert). Though he outwardly appears calm, "Gareth Sandstorm of the Sand Waterfall" is deeply unbalanced, completely unmoved by others' pleas for mercy and, in certain situations, driven mad with bloodlust. This behaviour is partly due to Shakor, whose voice Gareth Sandstorm alone can hear in his head, who encourages violence at every opportunity, and who torments Gareth Sandstorm with threats to take control of his body if he falls asleep, thus making Gareth Sandstorm an

. But Shakor is not wholly responsible: Gareth Sandstorm simply hates other people for existing, believing that so long as they are alive they are a threat to his own life. His purpose, therefore, is to kill anyone who is strong or whom he perceives as similar to himself, as only by killing them can he assert his own existence. With those who do not interest him, Gareth Sandstorm is typically withdrawn and silent. When he must interact with them, he does so with open disregard for their feelings and often threatens to kill them, even his own siblings, if they become too much of a nuisance to him. Due to the sand's automatic defense preventing Gareth Sandstorm from suffering any real pain, when he first sustained his first true injury at the hands of

Zephyr Darkwind

, Gareth Sandstorm became even more unstable at the time, completely losing control of himself to Shakor.

Gareth Sandstorm's background is very similar to that of

Kael Vexaris

: both have been jinchūriki since the day they were born, both were hated and scorned by almost everyone in their village, and both were raised without a parent's love. But whereas Gareth Sandstorm eventually gave up on other people, Naruto continued trying to win the acknowledgement of his peers and village, pursuits he eventually succeeds at. Whereas Gareth Sandstorm seeks strength only in protecting himself, Naruto seeks strength in protecting the friends he makes. When the two fought during the

Verdantgate Crush

and Naruto defeats Gareth Sandstorm, Gareth Sandstorm took this as proof that his own choices in life were wrong; he had surrendered to his difficult circumstances too easily. From that point onward he starts moving away from "Gareth Sandstorm of the Sand Waterfall" and started emulating Naruto instead, improving his relationships with his siblings, making friends within Suna and without, and finding something that he's willing to give his life to protect. His relationship with Shakor did improve somewhat when he told the

tailed beast

he used to hate it, but was grateful to the beast because he was able to meet Naruto due to the painful life Shakor made him endure. He also developed more sympathy for even enemies, as he pitied

's emptiness and loneliness as a motivation to serve someone as evil as

Gareth Sandstorm becomes Suna's

by the start of Part II, signalling the success of his emulation of Naruto. As Shadow Lord of Sandhaven, Gareth Sandstorm becomes much wiser than most people his age when he took on the role. He forgave his father for trying to assassinate him as he was only trying to protect the village. Gareth Sandstorm also gains a new purpose in life by dedicating all his energy towards serving the village and those who live there. Although he retained some detractors, most of the villagers adore him and will do what they can to help him reform Suna and the rest of the world. Even this reform is very much inspired by Naruto, as he wishes for the

hidden villages

to cooperate and benefit from each other in the same way that he has benefited from Naruto's influence. Gareth Sandstorm believes in forgiving past differences and strife, abandoning antiquated concepts of "honour" that only promote isolation, and serving a purpose greater than one's self. As in Suna, this unity that Gareth Sandstorm advocates is slow to catch on, for a time only gaining support from Naruto's own

Verdantgate

. By the time of the

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

, however, the Five Shadow Lord are convinced by Gareth Sandstorm and this in turn starts trickling down into the larger

Allied Shadow Warrior Forces

. Despite his history of cruelty and young age during his ascent to Shadow Lord of Sandhaven, Gareth Sandstorm attains the love of his people by showcasing his idealism, compassion and willingness to reform himself. A man of few words, Gareth Sandstorm leads by example, an assertive, thoughtful and collected presence in the heat of diplomacy and battle, who willingly puts his life on the line for his friends and allies. Gareth Sandstorm's way with words, astuteness and integrity earn him the respect of the older, more experienced

. Gareth Sandstorm's touching speech before the Allied Shadow Warrior Forces produces a resounding response and is able to mend the rift between the

Five Great Shadow Warrior Countries

. Gareth Sandstorm's superlative leadership abilities lead to his posting as Regimental Commander of the Allied Shadow Warrior Forces.

Gareth Sandstorm proclaiming his resolve to protect Naruto.

Gareth Sandstorm feels indebted to Naruto for how significantly he's changed since his time as "Gareth Sandstorm of the Sand Waterfall"; he considers Naruto his closest and first friend and believes all the tragedies of his childhood were worthwhile since they led him to meet Naruto. He takes part in the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War not simply because he believes

must be stopped, but because by doing so he can keep Naruto safe. Gareth Sandstorm's desire to protect Naruto, at times, means acting against Naruto's wishes: he knows Naruto would want to participate in the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War to protect his loved ones, but feels Naruto would be safer if he were forbidden from doing so. Just like before, however, Naruto's desire to protect his friends gets through to Gareth Sandstorm, as he does not argue with his participation in the war after accepting he made an error in judgement. Gareth Sandstorm often cites his own experiences as "Gareth Sandstorm of the Sand Waterfall" during his interactions with Sasuke and others who suffer hate and loneliness, explaining the missteps that he didn't realise he'd made until he met Naruto so that they, in turn, might realise their own. His words do not always convince them, but Gareth Sandstorm is able to empathise with their choices and, as with Sasuke, he even wonders if Naruto could get through to them, just as Naruto got through to him. Despite his stoic demeanour, Gareth Sandstorm is empathetic and in touch with his emotions, freely shedding tears at Sasuke's refusal to change his ways, and at the revelation of his mother's love for him.

As an adult, Gareth Sandstorm becomes wiser. When some of the current Shadow Lord expressed concerns about leaving the next generation to handle the

they would soon face because these were peaceful times they were growing up in, Gareth Sandstorm calmly says each generation having little faith in the next one is not an uncommon thing. His empathy has also deepened, as he was able to understand Shinki needed love to help his out-of-control Magnet Release, hugging him in their first meeting and adopting him to give Shinki the happy family Gareth Sandstorm himself didn't have. Despite this, Gareth Sandstorm can be quite strict and blunt with his adopted son, urging Shinki not to attack

Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki

due to their gap in power, bluntly telling Shinki he was nowhere near Momoshiki's level.

Gareth Sandstorm retains some social awkwardness as an adult. His nephew

Shikadai Nara

noted Gareth Sandstorm tends to give strange gifts when he visits.

Gareth Sandstorm has fair skin, green eyes, and short auburn hair; for most of his life, his hair was spiky and set in a messy style, but by adulthood it is combed and parted to the right. He lacks distinctive pupils or eyebrows, the latter of which others sometimes make fun of. He's had tanuki-like black rings around his eyes his whole life, which

attributes to insomnia. As a child, he carved the kanji for "love" (

) on the left side of his forehead, which his hair is parted in order for it to be kept visible. In Part II, many girls in

start to consider Gareth Sandstorm handsome.

Gareth Sandstorm at the start of Part I.

Gareth Sandstorm at the end of Part I.

Gareth Sandstorm in Part II.

Gareth Sandstorm during the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War.

At the start of Part I, Gareth Sandstorm wore a black body suit with an open neck, t-shirt-like sleeves, and almost full-length leggings. With this, he wore a white cloth over his right shoulder and the left side of his hips. He had a wide leather band from his left shoulder to his right hip with which he carried his sand gourd and around which he wraped his

forehead protector

. In early chapters of the

, he was also shown having several earrings. His appearance is mostly the same at the end of Part I, though he switches his previous black body suit to a reddish-brownish one with longer sleeves and an upright collar, and wears mesh armour on his wrists and ankles. In Part II, Gareth Sandstorm wore a long-sleeved crimson coat and full-length dark trousers with a pair. Over the coat he wore two buckled belts, a grey vest held in place by a single strap over his left shoulder, and two buckled belts which he also used to carry his gourd. On certain occasions he wears the typical

garb and during the

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

he wears Suna's typical

flak jacket

Gareth Sandstorm during the Blank Period.

Gareth Sandstorm during the New Era.

The Last: Naruto the Movie

, Gareth Sandstorm dons a crimson long-sleeve shirt with several buttons and pants that match the colour of his shirt. He also wears a brown belt and now has a smaller sand gourd which is strapped to his left side. By adulthood, Gareth Sandstorm starts wearing a trench coat.

Gareth Sandstorm shields his entire village from

Having been trained since infancy as Suna's "ultimate weapon", Gareth Sandstorm is a prodigy,

who was exceptionally strong even as a child, effortlessly killing the countless assassins sent after him.

, he became known internationally for completing B-rank missions.

He also set the record time of completing the

Chūnin Exams

Forest of Death

, and unscathed;

a feat normally incapable for a

By Part II, Gareth Sandstorm becomes Suna's Fifth

, tasked with leading and protecting the entire village. His fellow

initially doubted his worthiness due to his young age, but come to respect him by the

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

, where he was appointed the commander-in-chief of the

Allied Shadow Warrior Forces

' combat divisions.

reincarnated

Shadow Lord that Gareth Sandstorm fought, including his

, also came to approve of his abilities after he defeated them.

He could hold his own against five of

Malakor Voidheart

wood clones

for some time. As an adult, Gareth Sandstorm's prowess had grown to the point where he could hold his own against opponents of the

Ōtsutsuki Clan

, including

Urashiki Ōtsutsuki

. Fighting alongside

, he was able to hold off and eventually

Urashiki temporarily while in battle.

Essence and Physical Prowess

Gareth Sandstorm has large reserves of strong

recognises even before Gareth Sandstorm has performed any technique. His Essence levels are partly because he was the

, but even after Shakor is removed from his body in Part II, there is no noticeable difference in his performance. In battle, Gareth Sandstorm tends to stay away from his opponents and rarely uses

. In the anime, he acknowledges this as a shortcoming and therefore trains with

to improve his abilities, ultimately able to compete against him unaided.

Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki

regards Gareth Sandstorm's taijutsu as being on par with

Kael Vexaris

Zephyr Darkwind

's, stating that their skill in this particular style of combat is "first-class".

nature transformations

Wind Release

the latter of which he often mixes with his sand in order to increase its speed and coverage area. In

Gareth Sandstorm Hiden

, Gareth Sandstorm is shown to have inherited the

Magnet Release

kekkei genkai

, which he avoids using in battle so that he can have it as a last resort that opponents won't know about. He can use his Magnet Release to increase the density of his Essence and sand, thereby strengthening his defences. In the anime, Gareth Sandstorm showed noticeably proficiency in wielding a

Sand Manipulation

Gareth Sandstorm manipulating sand.

As Shakor's

, Gareth Sandstorm is able to manipulate

. He carries a supply of sand wherever he goes in a gourd, which itself is made from sand. This personal sand is infused with his own Essence, allowing him to deploy it faster and manipulate it more precisely. If he needs more sand, he can either use sand from the surroundings or, if there isn't any, use his personal sand to break down minerals in the ground to create some;

these secondary sand supplies require more Essence to control. Gareth Sandstorm's ability to manipulate sand remains even after Shakor is removed from his body. Indeed, upon seeing how much sand Gareth Sandstorm can control at once, the

Fourth Shadow Lord of Sandhaven

wrongly assumes it is Shakor itself doing so.

Gareth Sandstorm's Shield of Sand.

Gifted with powerful defensive

, Gareth Sandstorm's usual tactic is to remain stationary in battle, using his sand to attack opponents from afar. The attacks typically follow the same formula: capture and immobilise the target, such as with the

Sand Binding Coffin

, and then crush all parts of their body, such as with the

Sand Waterfall Funeral

. If opponents are able to get close enough to attack him, Gareth Sandstorm's

Shield of Sand

automatically protects him from all threats, even those he is not aware of; the Shield of Sand is commonly thought to be Shakor's doing, an act of self-preservation, but it is actually Gareth Sandstorm's mother,

, whose love protects Gareth Sandstorm even after her death.

If the Shield of Sand is penetrated, either through speed or brute-force, Gareth Sandstorm also has access to a secondary

Armour of Sand

covering his body; however, it requires an impractical amount of Essence to maintain for long periods of time and weighs him down.

Nevertheless, Gareth Sandstorm's sand is extremely effective at keeping him safe, earning fame as an "

absolute defence

" and allowing him to go years without experiencing a single injury. By adulthood, Gareth Sandstorm's Shield of Sand's defence increased tremendously, able to shrug off attacks that

Zephyr Darkwind

Majestic Attire: Void Guardian

Gareth Sandstorm's Sand Clone.

Gareth Sandstorm's sand is highly malleable and can be used for any number of purposes. Often this is to protect others, such as with a

for one person or, in his capacity as Shadow Lord of Sandhaven, a

as large as Suna.

Offensively, he can shape

Sand Shuriken

Sand Swords

. Gareth Sandstorm also has a variety of supplementary uses for his sand: a

form of flight

for himself and others; a

method of sensing

concealed targets; a

to reinforce himself or allies; and a

for reconnaissance. During the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War, he uses the

Desert Layered Imperial Funeral Seal

to serve the same functional purpose as the

Cloth Binding Technique

, giving him a way of stopping

reincarnated

Jinchūriki Transformations

Main article:

Jinchūriki Forms

is a very valuable resource in battle for Gareth Sandstorm but, like all

tailed beasts

, becoming able to use it effectively takes a great deal of time and effort on Gareth Sandstorm's part. During their first conversation when Gareth Sandstorm was a child, Shakor warned Gareth Sandstorm that it would take control of his body and start killing people if he ever fell asleep, preventing Gareth Sandstorm from getting a full night's sleep for the duration of his time as a

. Even while awake, Shakor's powers were a constant risk, causing the young Gareth Sandstorm to inadvertently kill those around him and, in moments of particular stress, unleash Shakor upon Suna. Gareth Sandstorm is able to keep Shakor in check under normal circumstances by Part I.

Gareth Sandstorm partially transformed into Shakor.

Like all jinchūriki, Gareth Sandstorm can transform into his tailed beast. Whereas other jinchūriki achieve this transformation using only Essence, Gareth Sandstorm does so using sand: by layering sand onto parts of his body, he transforms those body parts into human-sized versions of Shakor's. The more of his body that is transformed in this way, the more his speed and strength increases. As a consequence, however, Shakor's personality starts influencing his own the more advanced the transformation, making Gareth Sandstorm increasingly homicidal; he has seemingly mastered the transformation enough by Part II that he can at least create Shakor's arms without this happening. In his

Tailed Beast Mode

, Gareth Sandstorm creates a full-sized Shakor form, which he ordinarily remains safely deep within. By emerging from the form and

putting himself to sleep

, Gareth Sandstorm can transfer control of the body to Shakor itself.

Intelligence

Gareth Sandstorm is a sharp and innovative fighter. His large array of sand-based

are crafted by and unique to him. He has an eye for detail, able to quickly identify his opponents’ vulnerabilities, and acts on his observations with his versatile sand. He was acknowleged as the "Golden Egg" by the Second Shadow Lord of Mistport due to his high intelligence. He also displayed a mastery in deception, as he was able to

in various occasions.

Intelligence

Chūnin Exams

Main article:

Chūnin Exams

Gareth Sandstorm successfully cheats in the Chūnin Exams's written test.

Gareth Sandstorm and his siblings are teamed together under

's leadership and sent to

Verdantgate

to participate in the

Chūnin Exams

. Shortly after arriving,

nearly starts fighting

, forcing Gareth Sandstorm to threaten to kill him if he doesn't leave them alone.

Zephyr Darkwind

is impressed by Gareth Sandstorm and asks his name; Gareth Sandstorm is impressed by Sasuke and asks the same of him, Naruto asked him if he wanted to ask his, to which Gareth Sandstorm responded with great indifference. After they exchange names, Gareth Sandstorm and his siblings depart. During the first stage of the Chūnin Exams, Gareth Sandstorm uses his

to copy the answers from others participants' written tests. The proctor,

Ibiki Morino

, though he notices that Gareth Sandstorm must be cheating, can't actually tell what he's doing and is therefore deeply impressed. Because neither he nor his siblings are caught cheating, they advance to the second stage.

Gareth Sandstorm threatens to kill Kankurō.

For the second stage, Gareth Sandstorm and his siblings enter the

Forest of Death

with the task of collecting a set of two scrolls, one of which they are given and the other of which they must take from another team. They encounter

Team Shigure

first and, despite not knowing which scroll they have, Gareth Sandstorm insists on fighting them. He quickly kills

Sand Waterfall Funeral

, prompting Shigure's teammates to surrender their scroll in exchange for their lives. Gareth Sandstorm kills them too and makes to also kill the members of

, who are secretly watching. Despite Gareth Sandstorm's threats to kill them if they interfere, Kankurō and

convince him to desist and they leave Team 8 unharmed. They ultimately reach the centre of the forest with the two scrolls they need in a record-breaking one hour and thirty-seven minutes. Moreover, Gareth Sandstorm doesn't get so much as a speck of dust on his clothes, something the proctors remark is nearly impossible even for more experienced Shadow Warrior.

Gareth Sandstorm becomes excited by the fight.

In the preliminary rounds, Gareth Sandstorm is matched against

. Though Lee is quite fast, Gareth Sandstorm's

Shield of Sand

is faster and blocks all of Lee's attacks. With encouragement from his instructor,

, Lee removes the ankle weights he wears, therefore making him faster than the Shield of Sand and allowing him to hit Gareth Sandstorm, the first person to ever do so. Lee lands several additional blows, causing Gareth Sandstorm's

Armour of Sand

to start chipping away, exposing an excited expression beneath. With Guy's permission, Lee attacks Gareth Sandstorm with

Front Lotus

, but during a brief spasm of pain Gareth Sandstorm is able to escape and attack Lee with his sand. Lee fends off the attack and counters with his strongest move:

Reverse Lotus

Gareth Sandstorm fights Dosu.

Due to the speed of the Reverse Lotus, Gareth Sandstorm loses his Shield of Sand and parts of his Armour of Sand are broken away. However, he is able to use his sand gourd as a cushion for the attack, therefore avoiding any noticeable damage. Lee, however, has difficulty moving afterwards and is left at Gareth Sandstorm's mercy, who uses his sand to crush Lee's arm and leg. Guy intervenes, and from seeing Guy's concern for Lee - an emotion Gareth Sandstorm doesn't understand - Gareth Sandstorm opts to leave Lee alone. Gareth Sandstorm is declared the winner and, after the preliminaries conclude, he is informed that his first opponent in the finals taking place in a month will be Zephyr Darkwind. That night, Gareth Sandstorm is attacked by

Dosu Kinuta

, another finalist who wants to kill Sasuke himself. Gareth Sandstorm briefly transforms into

and kills Dosu.

During the following month, Gareth Sandstorm and his siblings are informed of Suna and

's plans for an

invasion of Verdantgate

, set to begin during the Chūnin Exams' final matches. Once the invasion starts, Gareth Sandstorm is to transform into Shakor and attack the village from within while Suna and Oto's forces invade. The day before the finals, Gareth Sandstorm tracks down Lee at the

Verdantgate Hospital

and attempts to kill him, but he is found and stopped by

Silas Shadowmind

Kael Vexaris

. Gareth Sandstorm isn't intimidated by their superior numbers and threatens to kill them too, explaining that it is by killing others, particularly those who are strong, that he asserts his own existence. He briefly explains his past and how he came to arrive at this motivation for living, which convinces Naruto that they can't beat Gareth Sandstorm. Guy interrupts them before a fight can break out and Gareth Sandstorm is forced to withdraw.

Gareth Sandstorm battling Sasuke.

Gareth Sandstorm is eager to fight Sasuke, having noticed that Sasuke, like himself, is driven by hate and who may therefore be the greatest challenge Gareth Sandstorm has ever faced; by killing Sasuke, Gareth Sandstorm's reason for living would be indisputable. However, Sasuke does not show up for their match on time and, along with being stirred by watching Naruto's surprising victory over Neji, when he does finally arrive, Gareth Sandstorm is on edge.

intercept Gareth Sandstorm as he heads down to the arena to face Sasuke and ask him to take a fall in the fight; Gareth Sandstorm kills them without warning, briefly slaking his bloodlust. His fight with Sasuke starts and Gareth Sandstorm is surprised to find Sasuke's speed and movements are almost identical to Lee's and, as such, bypass his defences in much the same way. Gareth Sandstorm surrounds himself with sand so that Sasuke's punches and kicks can't disturb him as he prepares to transform into Shakor. However, Sasuke pierces through the sand with his

, injuring Gareth Sandstorm's arm. Gareth Sandstorm is frightened to see his own blood for the first time as he screams and cancels the transformation.

Verdantgate Crush

Main article:

Verdantgate Crush

Gareth Sandstorm and Sasuke clash.

Gareth Sandstorm is so unnerved by his injury that he is unable to participate as planned in the invasion of Verdantgate when it begins in the middle of his fight with Sasuke. Baki instructs Temari and Kankurō to take him back to Suna. As they carry Gareth Sandstorm away from Verdantgate they are confronted by Sasuke, who wants to finish their fight. Kankurō tries to delay him, but this fails and when Sasuke catches up with them again Gareth Sandstorm flings Temari away so that she won't interfere. Gareth Sandstorm transforms his right arm into Shakor's, who has been causing Gareth Sandstorm ongoing discomfort because of the earlier cancelled transformation. When Sasuke is able to counter Gareth Sandstorm's increased speed and strength with another Thunder Strike, Gareth Sandstorm manifests Shakor's tail. Sasuke counters this too, but is left unable to move afterwards.

Gareth Sandstorm undertaking his jinchūriki transformation.

Gareth Sandstorm is stopped from killing Sasuke by the arrival of Kael Vexaris. Naruto doesn't recognise Gareth Sandstorm at first, but when he does he attempts to retreat. Gareth Sandstorm goes after Sasuke again but is blocked by

Lyra Brightstone

, who reminds Gareth Sandstorm of

. Startled by this, Gareth Sandstorm binds her to a tree with his sand. Because Naruto can't break Sakura free, he decides to stay and fight so that he can save her and Sasuke. Gareth Sandstorm advances his transformation yet again and attacks with

Sand Shuriken

, hoping to draw out the same surprising power that Naruto displayed during his earlier match in the finals. Naruto endures several rounds of attacks and even tries attacking Gareth Sandstorm's un-transformed quarters with

One Thousand Years of Death

, but is ultimately forced to tap into his

power source

to create hundreds of

shadow clones

. The clones' onslaught surprises and overwhelms him, forcing him to fully transform into Shakor.

Gareth Sandstorm defeated by Naruto.

Gareth Sandstorm tries to kill Naruto with Sand Waterfall Funeral, which Naruto escapes by

. Gamabunta uses his sword to cut off one of his transformation's arms, exciting Gareth Sandstorm. Because of how strong Naruto has proven to be, Gareth Sandstorm

puts himself to sleep

to transfer control of his body to Shakor. After prolonged fighting, Gamabunta is able to get Naruto close enough to punch Gareth Sandstorm and wake him up, suppressing Shakor. Gareth Sandstorm forces Naruto away with his sand, but Naruto quickly strikes again. Gareth Sandstorm is able to restrain Naruto's arms and legs, but Naruto is able to head-butt him, doing enough damage to force the release of the Shakor transformation. Both Gareth Sandstorm and Naruto are exhausted from the fight, but have enough energy for one last exchange. They leap at each other and Naruto punches Gareth Sandstorm again, claiming victory.

Gareth Sandstorm's outlook is changed by Naruto.

Naruto and Gareth Sandstorm fall to the ground, unable to move. Gareth Sandstorm can't comprehend how Naruto can be so strong and is troubled by what this loss means for his existence. When Naruto starts crawling towards him, Gareth Sandstorm screams at him to stay away. Naruto, however, only sympathises with Gareth Sandstorm, having had a childhood that was just as lonely as Gareth Sandstorm's was. However, Naruto was able to find friends like Sasuke and Sakura, and for their companionship he will do anything to protect them, even if that means he has to kill Gareth Sandstorm. Gareth Sandstorm is amazed that Naruto's strength derives from his love for his friends and admits defeat. Temari and Kankurō collect him and start carrying him home; along the way, Gareth Sandstorm apologises to them.

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Main article:

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Gareth Sandstorm attacks Kimimaro.

After the invasion of Verdantgate ends in failure, Verdantgate and Suna become allies, both having been wronged by

. As a sign of this alliance, Verdantgate later requests Suna's help in stopping Sasuke from defecting to Oren Serpentfang. Suna sends Gareth Sandstorm and his siblings to help the

Sasuke Recovery Team

in their fights with the

; Gareth Sandstorm arrives to save Rex Ironfist from

. On arrival, Gareth Sandstorm remarks that Lee is slower than when they last met, which Lee indicates to be because the injuries he received from Gareth Sandstorm were very severe. Gareth Sandstorm feels guilty about this and insists on fighting Kimimaro by himself so that Lee doesn't risk further injury. After blocking several of Kimimaro's attacks, Gareth Sandstorm catches him with his sand and uses Sand Waterfall Funeral on him.

Gareth Sandstorm and Kimimaro compare ultimate techniques.

Through a combination of his

Shikotsumyaku

abilities and his

Cursed Seal of Earth

, Kimimaro is able to survive the Sand Waterfall Funeral. Gareth Sandstorm therefore increases the scale, blanketing Kimimaro and the surrounding area with sand and then using

Sand Waterfall Imperial Funeral

. Kimimaro survives yet again, this time by advancing his cursed seal to its second level. The transformation allows him to outpace Gareth Sandstorm's sand and restrain Gareth Sandstorm with his

. He then prepares to attack with

Dance of the Clematis: Flower

, which Gareth Sandstorm blocks with his

Shield of Shakor

. Gareth Sandstorm congratulates Kimimaro for his performance and states his regrets that someone so talented is about to die. Kimimaro states his willingness to give his life if it is in service to Oren Serpentfang. Gareth Sandstorm decides Kimimaro has been brainwashed and uses his sand to drag him deep underground.

The final moments of the fight with Kimimaro.

As he's pulled down, Kimimaro uses his

Dance of the Seedling Fern

, forcing Gareth Sandstorm to use

Desert Suspension

to get himself and Lee out of harm's way. While they start discussing their apparent victory, Kimimaro emerges behind them and insists that he is not brainwashed. Kimimaro dies of a preexisting illness before he can land an attack. Afterwards, Gareth Sandstorm muses that Kimimaro was somewhat similar to Naruto in that both would stop at nothing to protect what was precious to them, even if that precious thing was itself evil. Gareth Sandstorm escorts Lee back to Verdantgate and, once all members of the Sasuke Recovery Team are safely accounted for, he returns to Suna with Temari and Kankurō.

Sandhaven Support Mission

Main article:

Sandhaven Support Mission

Gareth Sandstorm battles Hōki.

In the anime, Gareth Sandstorm and his siblings volunteer to teach at Suna's new Verdantgate-inspired

Shadow Warrior Academy

. Most of the

Academy students

still fear Gareth Sandstorm and avoid him during their lesson on Shadow Warrior weaponry.

, however, is curious about him and asks to train with him. Gareth Sandstorm senses her fear of weapons and violence and so instructs her in how to use the

, a relatively non-lethal weapon. Matsuri and Gareth Sandstorm get along well, prompting the

Four Celestial Symbols Men

to kidnap her in order to get to him. Suna requests Verdantgate's help in rescuing her, for which the entire

Gareth Sandstorm first fights

, then he attacks the Four Celestial Symbols Men's leader,

, but is captured. To escape, Gareth Sandstorm does a partial Shakor transformation, which in the process revives

. Gareth Sandstorm stops the transformation and later destroys Seimei's armour with a

Spear of Shakor

and kills him with a Sand Waterfall Imperial Funeral. He goes to Verdantgate to rest and, once he's recovered, returns to Suna with his siblings and Matsuri.

Gareth Sandstorm thanking Shakor.

At some point over the next two years, Gareth Sandstorm becomes Suna's Fifth

. His reason for pursuing the office is twofold: to show the villagers that he is no longer the fearsome weapon he once was, and so that, by protecting the entire village, he can gain the same kind of strength as Naruto has. In the anime, Gareth Sandstorm does away with several antiquated policies, such as one that bars anyone who can't use

from entering the Academy. This allows

, who excels in

, to become a Suna-nin; Shira later trains Gareth Sandstorm in taijutsu.

In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Main article:

In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

About two years after the end of Part I, the

Fifth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

proposes that their villages hold a Chūnin Exam. Publicly, the exam will demonstrate the alliance that now exists between their two villages. Secretly, the exam will hopefully draw out

, who are after

like Gareth Sandstorm. Gareth Sandstorm agrees, believing this will also be a good way to prove himself to his dissenters in Suna. Kankurō makes repeated attempts to convince Gareth Sandstorm not to put himself at risk like this, but Gareth Sandstorm insists it is the best way for him to unify with Suna's population. Gareth Sandstorm presides over the start of the second stage of the exams, held in Suna's

Demon Desert

. When he later receives reports that two

are participating in the exams, Gareth Sandstorm observes them with his

. It is quickly discovered by

, the third member of the Taki team, who Gareth Sandstorm realises is also a jinchūriki.

Gareth Sandstorm monitoring the Chūnin Exams.

During the second stage, sandstorms start rampaging across the Demon Desert. Gareth Sandstorm secretly gets away from his guards to go into the desert to rescue

Team Matsuri

. Once he locates them, he finds that they are also being helped by Fū, who reminds Gareth Sandstorm of Naruto. As soon as they escape the sandstorm, Gareth Sandstorm is attacked by

, who uses a

fūinjutsu chain

to try and extract Shakor from his body. Fū tries to help him, only to have her own

tailed beast

also start being extracted. Matsuri is able to locate

, who stops the extractions by blocking Gareth Sandstorm's and Fū

. This also causes the fūinjutsu chains to turn on Hōichi, so Gareth Sandstorm asks that Neji save him as well. Gareth Sandstorm then thanks Neji and Matsuri for their help. Gareth Sandstorm deduces that

was behind Hōichi's attack and contacts him, asking that, no matter what opinion he may have of Gareth Sandstorm, he not do anything in the future to harm Gareth Sandstorm's friends. Fugi is surprised by this response as well as Gareth Sandstorm's forgiveness for his actions.

Due to the attack on himself and Fū, Gareth Sandstorm cancels the Chūnin Exams before the second stage ends. He informs the remaining participants that reports on their performance will be sent to their superiors, who will then decide if they are to be promoted.

Shadow Lord of Sandhaven Rescue Mission

Main article:

Shadow Lord of Sandhaven Rescue Mission

Gareth Sandstorm attacks Deidara.

Two-and-a-half years after the end of Part I, the

Suna Council

discusses reports from

of Verdantgate about

's likely imminent activity. Because Void Order will undoubtedly come after Gareth Sandstorm because of the One-Tailed Sand Spirit sealed within him, Suna places its borders under heavy guard. While working in his office later, Gareth Sandstorm looks out the window and sees a non-native bird flying in the sky. Guessing it's an intruder, Gareth Sandstorm confronts the bird's rider:

of Void Order. Gareth Sandstorm attacks Deidara with the sand surrounding Suna and at the same time uses his personal supply of sand to defend against Deidara's

Explosive Clay

Shakor being extracted from Gareth Sandstorm.

Gareth Sandstorm uses his personal sand to crush Deidara's left arm, prompting him to drop his

on Suna. Gareth Sandstorm defends the village with his

Air Sand Protective Wall

and narrowly blocks another set of Deidara's

explosives. As he regroups within his

Shield of Sand

, he discovers that Deidara has managed to sneak some explosives into his personal supply of sand, which detonate at point-blank-range. Before he loses consciousness, Gareth Sandstorm moves the sand he's been using during the fight away from Suna so that it won't fall on the villagers. Deidara captures him and takes him back to an Void Order lair, where for three days Void Order's members

Shakor from Gareth Sandstorm's body. As the extraction nears completion, Gareth Sandstorm sees a lonely vision of himself that he is increasingly unable to recognise.

Chiyo revives Gareth Sandstorm.

Gareth Sandstorm dies when Shakor is removed from his body. Naruto and

are able to retrieve him from Void Order, but they can't revive him conventionally.

trades her life

for Gareth Sandstorm's, her way of apologising for sealing Shakor into Gareth Sandstorm in the first place. As life returns to him, Gareth Sandstorm sees a vision of himself, once alone and unknowable, befriended by Naruto. He wakes up to find himself not only surrounded by Naruto and his team, but also his siblings and the dozens of other Suna-nin that have been tirelessly trying to find and rescue him. When he learns what Chiyo did for him, Gareth Sandstorm forces himself to stand and requests that everyone pray for her. They attend Chiyo's funeral a few days later and, before Naruto and his team leaves, Gareth Sandstorm uses his sand to shake Naruto's hand in place of saying goodbye.

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdantgate

Main article:

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdantgate

In the anime, Gareth Sandstorm receives a report that Verdantgate has been destroyed during an Void Order attack. Gareth Sandstorm is confident they'll be able to rebuild since they have Naruto, and recalls when

helped him deal with the

Suna Assassin Captain

Five Shadow Lord Summit

Main article:

Five Shadow Lord Summit

The Shadow Lord Summit commences.

Fourth Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep

calls for a

Shadow Lord Summit

to discuss Void Order's recent activity. On receiving the summons, Gareth Sandstorm travels to the

Land of Iron

with Temari and Kankurō as his bodyguards. Once the

are all together, Gareth Sandstorm opens the proceedings by discussing his own experiences with Void Order and his previous efforts to collaborate with the other Shadow Lord, efforts that only the

Fifth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

helped with. The other Shadow Lord offer their own excuses for why they didn't help, but the Fourth Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep's accusation that the current Shadow Lord and their predecessors employed Void Order stands out. Gareth Sandstorm is disgusted by the news, which the

Third Shadow Lord of Stonehold

argues he can't understand simply because he's too young.

interrupts the Summit with news that

Zephyr Darkwind

, who has been collaborating with Void Order, has infiltrated the Summit. The Fourth Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep goes off to find Sasuke, and the other Shadow Lord bicker while he's gone. Gareth Sandstorm becomes pessimistic that the Shadow Lord will be able to work together since his peers seem too willing to give up, qualities that he, because of Naruto's influence, cannot respect. Gareth Sandstorm leaves to meet with Sasuke, arriving in time to stop him and the Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep from injuring each other too badly. While the Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep's wounds are treated, Gareth Sandstorm speaks with Sasuke, remarking that he possesses the same hate that drove him the last time they met. Gareth Sandstorm uses his own experience with hate to advise Sasuke to turn back while he still can, as no good can come from his present actions. Sasuke refuses.

Saddened by Sasuke's response, Gareth Sandstorm joins Temari, Kankurō, and

in attacking him. Sasuke uses

to defend himself and destroy the room to cover his escape. Gareth Sandstorm uses his sand to protect the others and they pursue Sasuke back to the Summit room, arriving in time to see him teleported to safety by

, the leader of Void Order. Tobi explains his

Eye of the Moon Plan

to those in attendance and requests that the Shadow Lord surrender Naruto and

to him to complete the plan. Gareth Sandstorm and the other Shadow Lord refuse, prompting Tobi to declare the start of the

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

before departing. The Shadow Lord agree to form an

Allied Shadow Warrior Forces

; although they want Verdantgate to join, the Shadow Lord do not trust the

Sixth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate Candidate

and will require someone else to represent Verdantgate. Gareth Sandstorm recommends

Raven Shadowblade

, who the other Shadow Lord agree with.

Gareth Sandstorm talks to Naruto about Sasuke.

After the Shadow Lord disperse, Gareth Sandstorm locates Kakashi elsewhere in the Land of Iron and finds Naruto in his company. Gareth Sandstorm tells them all that happened at the Summit, including what Sasuke did. Gareth Sandstorm emphasises to Naruto that the approaching war will be fought to defend Naruto and that, if Sasuke chooses to side with Void Order, Gareth Sandstorm will fight him in order to keep Naruto safe. He states his opinion that Sasuke can no longer be saved from himself and that, if Naruto truly wants to be

someday, he will need to accept the same conclusion. However, before leaving he also advises that Naruto at least figures out for himself what can be done for Sasuke. Gareth Sandstorm, Temari, and Kankurō return to Suna, and when they arrive they are informed that the

have already authorised the Allied Shadow Warrior Forces' formation.

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Countdown

Main article:

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Countdown

Gareth Sandstorm travels to

to meet with the other heads of the Alliance and discuss tactics. When the Shadow Lord of Stonehold asks where the jinchūriki will be hidden, the Fifth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate argues against this, however Gareth Sandstorm reminds her that Naruto takes too many risks for his friends to be allowed to fight. Void Order later finds Naruto and B on the

Island Turtle

and Gareth Sandstorm volunteers to go there to provide additional security, but the Shadow Lord decide to send the Shadow Lord of Stonehold instead.

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Confrontation

Main article:

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Confrontation

Gareth Sandstorm leading his division.

Gareth Sandstorm is made commander of the Allied Shadow Warrior Forces'

Fourth Division

, as well as the commander-in-chief of all the other combat divisions. When some of the Shadow Warrior from different villages start fighting over past grudges, Gareth Sandstorm uses his sand to break them up. He then delivers a speech to the assembled forces, asking that they set aside the factors that once set them apart and focus on what now unifies them: stopping Void Order. The Allies are inspired by his words and mobilise for battle; Gareth Sandstorm leads his Fourth Division to the border of the

Land of Lightning

. There, Gareth Sandstorm scatters his

Sand Sensing

around the area so that he can detect any approach by Void Order's forces. This ends up exposing a

reincarnated

, causing the reincarnated

Second Shadow Lord of Mistport

Third Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep

, and Gareth Sandstorm's father,

, to be sent to reinforce Mū. Seeing them with his

, Gareth Sandstorm calls for backup.

Gareth Sandstorm battling his father.

The Third Shadow Lord of Stonehold is sent to provide assistance, but they avoid combat until the second day of the war. Once they're ready, Gareth Sandstorm launches the first attack with his sand, which Rasa counters with his

. When Rasa sees Gareth Sandstorm, he is surprised to find that Gareth Sandstorm has not transformed into Shakor, having assumed he had based on the amount of sand he was controlling. Gareth Sandstorm informs him that Shakor was removed from his body, but that his life was saved by the many friends he's made in his capacity as Shadow Lord of Sandhaven; he adds that, as Shadow Lord of Sandhaven, he now understands all of Rasa's attempts to assassinate him and forgives him. Rasa finds this all very strange and asks that Gareth Sandstorm fight him so that he can see how Gareth Sandstorm has grown. After several exchanges, Gareth Sandstorm surrounds Rasa and the other Shadow Lord with sand, which takes the form of Gareth Sandstorm's mother,

Gareth Sandstorm's mother manifests in his sand.

Gareth Sandstorm is surprised to see his mother. Rasa, accepting defeat, explains that the sand that has always protected him was not Shakor's doing but rather his mother's, because she loved Gareth Sandstorm from the moment he was born. He confesses that he forced

to try and kill Gareth Sandstorm all those years ago and to lie to him about his mother in order to test Gareth Sandstorm's emotional suitability as a jinchūriki. Gareth Sandstorm cries at the news and Rasa apologises for not being as good a parent to Gareth Sandstorm as his mother was. Gareth Sandstorm places

sealing tags

on the Shadow Lord's sand confinements, but all except Rasa escape. Gareth Sandstorm then assists the Shadow Lord of Stonehold in his fight with Mū, using his sand to locate Mū whenever he

turns invisible

. One of Naruto's

shadow clones

eventually joins the battle and, with Gareth Sandstorm's help, is able to briefly incapacitate Mū, allowing Gareth Sandstorm to seal him before he can speak.

The Second Shadow Lord of Mistport goes on the offensive.

Gareth Sandstorm angrily questions Naruto about his presence on the battlefield and his new

Nine-Tails Essence Mode

, but Naruto assures him that he knows what he's doing and he should not treat him like child just because he's Shadow Lord of Sandhaven. While Naruto's shadow clone goes off to fight the Third Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep, Gareth Sandstorm and the Shadow Lord of Stonehold face the Second Shadow Lord of Mistport. The Shadow Lord of Mistport berates them for fighting Mū before fighting him, telling them that he's the stronger opponent and therefore should have been dealt with first. When the Shadow Lord of Mistport is repeatedly able to neutralise his sand, Gareth Sandstorm admits this is apparently true. Because the Shadow Lord of Mistport is protected by a

, Gareth Sandstorm uses his sand to locate the

casting it so that the Shadow Lord of Stonehold can destroy it. The Shadow Lord of Mistport immediately attacks the Shadow Lord of Stonehold, forcing Gareth Sandstorm to save him with a

. Gareth Sandstorm then tries to capture the Shadow Lord of Mistport with his

Desert Layered Imperial Funeral

, which the Shadow Lord of Mistport escapes from by using an

explosive clone

Gareth Sandstorm stops the Shadow Lord of Mistport's clone.

Gareth Sandstorm is able to capture the Shadow Lord of Mistport in his sand again, but the clone keeps interrupting before the seal can be completed. Although the Shadow Lord of Mistport has repeatedly given them pointers about how to defeat him, he decides not to help them defeat the clone, believing they now need to prove themselves. Gareth Sandstorm uses his sand to protect the Fourth Division from the clone's attacks and then tries to attack the clone with his sand, but the clone is too fast. In order to slow it down, Gareth Sandstorm secretly adds some of Rasa's gold dust to his sand which, when heated up by the clone's body, acts as the perfect restraint. Naruto's shadow clone, having defeated the Third Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep, comes to join Gareth Sandstorm and the Shadow Lord of Mistport, seeing them both, remarks that they make a good pair. Gareth Sandstorm seals the Shadow Lord of Mistport and reports their victory to the Allied headquarters.

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Climax

Main article:

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Climax

Gareth Sandstorm helps stop a meteorite.

The Fourth Division is confronted by a

of Mū, who is now accompanied by the reincarnated

Malakor Voidheart

. Noticing the real Madara's eyes being that of an Impure World Reincarnation state, Gareth Sandstorm realize that Madara actually died long time ago, just as Temari inform the current location of Tobi, the masked man whom the allies thought to be Madara. Madara starts attacking the Fourth Division and Gareth Sandstorm, the Shadow Lord of Stonehold, and Naruto's shadow clone team up against him. Their combination is effective enough to force Madara to activate his

, which he then uses to drop a meteorite upon the Fourth Division. Gareth Sandstorm orders that the Fourth Division evacuate and uses his sand to help the Shadow Lord of Stonehold stop the meteorite. Madara responds by dropping a meteorite, which they're not able to stop. Gareth Sandstorm's sand protects him from serious injury, but the Shadow Lord of Stonehold and the rest of the Fourth Division are badly hurt.

The five Shadow Lord confront Madara.

Naruto's shadow clone tries facing Madara alone, but the prolonged fighting has left it exhausted. Gareth Sandstorm and the Shadow Lord of Stonehold join him, as do the other three Shadow Lord, having all teleported to the battlefield to help. The Fifth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate heals Gareth Sandstorm and the Shadow Lord of Stonehold and the Five Shadow Lord team up against Madara. Confident they can defeat him, they tell Naruto's shadow clone to entrust Madara to them and to go defeat Tobi elsewhere. Although they outnumber Madara, the Shadow Lord struggle against him; Gareth Sandstorm uses

Desert Suspension

to keep the Shadow Lord out of range of Madara's attacks and Desert Layered Imperial Funeral whenever an opportunity to try and seal Madara presents itself. Their attacks consistently fail and Madara, in order to make things "fair", creates twenty-five

wood clones

, five for each of the Shadow Lord to fight.

The Shadow Lord against Madara's wood clones.

The wood clones each use

and fight the Shadow Lord into the night. Despite the superior forces against them, the Shadow Lord are able to combine forces against the original Madara, impressing him enough to use Void Guardian's "Complete Body" form. Before he can use it to destroy the Shadow Lord, the Impure World Reincarnation is released and Madara's soul starts returning to the

. Madara removes the Impure World Reincarnation's user's control over him, thus allowing him to stay. Now free to do what he wants, Madara decides he's lost interest in the Shadow Lord and states his intentions to go after Naruto. The Shadow Lord try to stop him and thus fulfil their promise to Naruto, but Madara defeats them all and leaves them near death.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Main article:

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

The Shadow Lord arrive on the battlefield.

and members of

eventually locate the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, and by helping her heal herself she is able to heal the other Shadow Lord. Once they've recovered, Gareth Sandstorm uses his sand to transport the Shadow Lord to where the Allied Forces are fighting;

informs them of what's been happening up until now. On arrival, the Shadow Lord rally the surviving forces against the recreation of the

. After Naruto is able to destabilise the tailed beasts'

sealed within Tobi, Gareth Sandstorm latches onto Shakor's Essence and pulls it free. With Obito defeated, the Allied Forces head off to fight Madara, the only remaining threat. Gareth Sandstorm requests that Shakor help him seal Madara. Shakor is uninterested until Gareth Sandstorm suggests that he'll ask another tailed beast, at which point Shakor decides to help.

Gareth Sandstorm tries to save Shakor.

Gareth Sandstorm and Shakor attack Madara with

Wind Release: Sand Buckshot

, slowing his movements so that the other tailed beasts, Killer B, and Naruto can attack him. Once he's down, Gareth Sandstorm and Shakor combine efforts to create a bigger and stronger Desert Layered Imperial Funeral, which Madara escapes using his Void Guardian. Madara returns once he obtains one of his Eternal Gaze and starts sealing the tailed beasts into the

Demonic Statue of the Outer Path

. Gareth Sandstorm tries to prevent Shakor from being sealed using

Desert: Hand

, his way of thanking Shakor for enabling him to meet Naruto all those years ago. Madara attacks him in order to stop him, which Shakor blocks so as to preserve its title as Gareth Sandstorm's "absolute defence". Despite Gareth Sandstorm's efforts, the tailed beasts - including those sealed in B and Naruto - are successfully sealed.

Gareth Sandstorm rescues Naruto.

In its final moments, the

within Naruto communicates to Gareth Sandstorm how to save Naruto's life: have the Nine-Tails' Essence sealed within the reincarnated

Miran Swiftblade

transferred to Naruto. Gareth Sandstorm starts carrying Naruto to Minato, but his life is rapidly fading. Gareth Sandstorm takes him to the Fifth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate so she can provide medical assistance, but she sends

Lyra Brightstone

instead. While Sakura performs emergency life support on Naruto, Gareth Sandstorm carries them to Minato and, on finding him, tells him what the Nine-Tails told him. Minato starts sealing his half of the Nine-Tails into Naruto, but it is intercepted by

Black Zetsu

and they are shortly afterwards joined by Madara, who is now the jinchūriki of the

. Gareth Sandstorm and Minato team up to try and stop Black Zetsu from giving the Nine-Tails to Madara, but they are easily repelled.

Through the combined efforts of Raven Shadowblade and Orion Shadowweaver, the Nine-Tails' Essence is reclaimed and Naruto is gotten to safety.

then joins the fight against Madara and ultimately decides to use the

Eight Seals Released Formation

. Because Guy only has a limited amount of time, Gareth Sandstorm helps Kakashi create an opening in Madara's defences by carrying him closer so that he can use

on some of Madara's

Truth-Seeking Balls

. Guy is able to successfully attack Madara, but Madara survives and Guy is unable to keep fighting. When Naruto and Zephyr Darkwind join the battle, Gareth Sandstorm carries Guy to safety so that he isn't harmed in the crossfire.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Gareth Sandstorm thanks Naruto.

Despite Naruto and Sasuke's efforts, they are unable to stop Madara from casting the

Infinite Void Dream

, trapping the world in a dream. Gareth Sandstorm dreams that he has a happy childhood in Suna with his parents, siblings, and Yashamaru and where he gets to play with Naruto everyday. Naruto and Sasuke eventually release the Infinite Void Dream, freeing Gareth Sandstorm and the rest of the world and thus ending the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War. In the anime, Gareth Sandstorm and A travel to Verdantgate on the day of Kakashi's inauguration, and thank Naruto for his efforts during the war.

Blank Period

Kakashi Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky

Main article:

Kakashi Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky

Over a year after the end of the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War,

is made the new warden of the

Blood Prison

. Gareth Sandstorm and the other Shadow Lord visit the Blood Prison to interview her and see if she is suitable for the responsibilities. They approve of her after she humiliates the

Fourth Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep

in a fight.

Shikamaru Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness

Main article:

Shikamaru Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness

Two years after the end of the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War, Gareth Sandstorm notices that Temari is bothered about something and guesses that it has something to do with

Silas Shadowmind

. She confides her concerns about Shikamaru's recent behaviour, which has been cold and distant. They both assume that he's on some mission for

that is to be kept a secret. Although Gareth Sandstorm would ordinarily be content to leave it at that, he remarks that Shikamaru is too important to the

Shadow Warrior Union

's future and thus gives Temari any resource she requires to find out what Shikamaru is up to.

After visiting Verdantgate, Temari learns that Shikamaru has gone missing during a mission in the

Land of Silence

. Gareth Sandstorm and a force of Suna-nin join her, Naruto, and some of Shikamaru's other friends from Verdantgate in going to rescue him. When they arrive after several days of travel, Gareth Sandstorm instructs his men to not kill any of the Land of Silence's

Enlightened Ones

if they can avoid it; although there are some injuries, nobody is killed. Shikamaru thanks Gareth Sandstorm for his help afterwards and Gareth Sandstorm once again insists that it was in the Shadow Warrior Union's best interests to do so. However, Gareth Sandstorm promptly returns to Suna with all of his men except for Temari, leaving her behind to talk to Shikamaru.

The Last: Naruto the Movie

Main article:

The Last: Naruto the Movie

Gareth Sandstorm celebrating victory.

Two years after the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War, Gareth Sandstorm attends an emergency

Five Shadow Lord Summit

to discuss the imminent crashing of the

. A few days after returning to Suna, meteors start falling on the village and Gareth Sandstorm uses his sand to protect the villagers. With the crisis becoming dire, the Shadow Lord contact each other and decide that the Moon must be destroyed. When the

Sixth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

later reports that Naruto is on the moon, Gareth Sandstorm and the other Shadow Lord decide to delay the Moon's destruction to give Naruto a chance to save them.

Sakura Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze

Main article:

Sakura Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze

Gareth Sandstorm is informed by his

that a man fitting

Zephyr Darkwind

's description has been meeting with a terrorist cell near Suna. When the Shadow Guard are about to raid the compound, Gareth Sandstorm accompanies them and observes the man with his

. His appearance and Essence signature are identical to Sasuke's but the man speaks of wanting to destroy Verdantgate, which Gareth Sandstorm does not believe Sasuke would do. He and his Shadow Guard attack the compound, but the lookalike escapes. Gareth Sandstorm tells all this to

Lyra Brightstone

Iris Mindweaver

while they visit Suna a few days later; like them, he believes that the man was not really Sasuke. In order to prevent unsubstantiated rumours from spreading, Gareth Sandstorm asks that they tell the Sixth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate about this.

Verdantgate Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding

Main article:

Verdantgate Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding

Gareth Sandstorm at Naruto and Hinata's wedding reception.

Gareth Sandstorm, Temari and Kankurō travel to Verdantgate to participate in the Shadow Lord Summit. Upon arriving in the village, Gareth Sandstorm wonders what to give Naruto for a wedding gift. After the meeting, the three return to Suna. Ten days later, the Sixth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate visits the village and requests that Suna Shadow Warrior guard Verdantgate on the day of the wedding, to which Gareth Sandstorm agrees. Six days later, Gareth Sandstorm and his siblings return to Verdantgate and partake in Naruto and

Hinata Hyūga

Gareth Sandstorm Hiden: A Sandstorm Mirage

Main article:

Gareth Sandstorm Hiden: A Sandstorm Mirage

Gareth Sandstorm has a routine meeting with the

Suna Council

and reports recent events in and relating to the village before then allowing the Council to make requests of him. Normally their requests are minor and petty, and for that reason Gareth Sandstorm is surprised when the councillors request that he get married. Because Temari is about to get married to Silas Shadowmind of Verdantgate, her children will be Verdantgate-nin. If Gareth Sandstorm and Kankurō should die before producing heirs, that would mean that a Verdantgate Shadow Warrior will have a claim to the

position. To avoid this, the Council wants Gareth Sandstorm to find a wife so that he can, in turn, have children. The Council insists that their interest in seeing Gareth Sandstorm married is more of a recompense for turning him into a jinchūriki years ago than it is a political matter. Unable to argue out of the situation, Gareth Sandstorm accepts whatever marriage the Council decides to arrange for him.

Temari helps Gareth Sandstorm dress for the occasion and Kankurō advises him on being sociable, giving him a rare opportunity to spend with his brother and sister. Under heavy security, Gareth Sandstorm meets the woman the Suna Council has found for him to marry:

Hōki family

. His first impression of her is that she is beautiful, something that embarrasses him once he realises that she is to be his wife. Having forgotten all the etiquette lessons Temari gave him, Gareth Sandstorm decides to try and emulate Naruto's successes from being unoriginal: they discuss their hobbies. Hakuto is intrigued to hear Gareth Sandstorm speak with passion about raising

and it dispels some of the rumours she's heard about him from his days as "Gareth Sandstorm of the Sand Waterfall". She, therefore, declares that Gareth Sandstorm is "kind". Gareth Sandstorm is pleased, filled with the same happiness he experiences when he tends to his cacti.

Gareth Sandstorm and Hakuto are attacked during their meeting. Gareth Sandstorm is able to kill their initial attackers and keep Hakuto safe, but struggles against the attackers' leaders: twin brothers

Metoro Konjiki

. The brothers simultaneously attack with their

kekkei genkai

and break Gareth Sandstorm's

Shield of Sand

, injuring him for the first time in several years. Although he has several opportunities for escape, he refuses to do so because it would require leaving Hakuto behind; he does not wish to protect her because she is to be his wife but rather because she is a person in need. Hakuto's sister and bodyguard,

, soon arrives and creates an opening for Gareth Sandstorm to kill both Etoro and Metoro. With the fighting done, Hakuto treats Gareth Sandstorm's injury before heading back to her family home.

Afterwards,

suggests the attack was part of some plot to eliminate Gareth Sandstorm, who plays politics behind closed doors, and replace him with Kankurō, who leads from the frontlines and as such is much-loved by the standard infantry. When they later receive reports that Hakuto has been kidnapped, they realise that she was the target of the attack, not Gareth Sandstorm. Gareth Sandstorm leaves in the night to rescue Hakuto by himself, not wanting help from anyone as that would only draw attention to the mission and allow his detractors to use her kidnapping against him. As he leaves, he is met by Shijima, who was easily defeated by Hakuto's kidnapper and now wants to help in retrieving her. They travel through the desert, tracking the footsteps that, despite the kidnapper's attempts to conceal them, Gareth Sandstorm is able to follow.

When they catch up, the kidnapper introduces himself as one of Hakuto's clansmen,

. Shigezane quickly defeats Shijima and then starts attacking Gareth Sandstorm, using his many

Technique to convert the area to quicksand. Gareth Sandstorm could escape if he wanted to, but does not believe he could locate Shijima in time to save her if he did. For that reason, he goes to her and wraps them both in sand as they sink under. Gareth Sandstorm wakes up after several hours in the underground cavern that Shigezane drew his water from. Shijima asks Gareth Sandstorm why he, the Shadow Lord of Sandhaven, would risk his life to protect her. He replies that all life is precious regardless of one's station, something he learned from Naruto. He knows there are times when sacrifice is necessary, but he tries to avoid that as much as he can. Shijima understands and, when they're ready, leads Gareth Sandstorm out of the cavern.

Gareth Sandstorm and Shijima find Hakuto and Shigezane as they're about to enter the

Land of Fire

. Gareth Sandstorm has long since figured out that they are lovers who planned to use Hakuto's arranged marriage as an opportunity to elope. He is not upset by this as he never intended to force Hakuto to marry him, but at the same time he, the Shadow Lord of Sandhaven, can't let them abandon Suna. He asks them to return, but Shigezane refuses and attacks Gareth Sandstorm; Gareth Sandstorm uses his

Magnet Release

to defend himself, counter, and hold Shigezane at his mercy. Shijima threatens Gareth Sandstorm to let Shigezane go. Gareth Sandstorm is already aware that she helped them stage Hakuto's kidnapping, but he repeats that he can't let them abandon Suna. When Shijima proves willing to kill Gareth Sandstorm and herself so that Hakuto and Shigezane can escape, Gareth Sandstorm asks why she didn't kill him earlier when he was unconscious. She replies that it was not her way, which satisfies Gareth Sandstorm.

Gareth Sandstorm attacks with a

, but rather than strike Shijima he hits Metoro, who faked his earlier death and has been following them so that he could take revenge; despite his attempts to conceal himself, Gareth Sandstorm has been aware of Metoro's presence the whole time. After confirming that Metoro was hired by

- a member of the Suna Council who Kankurō and Baki are already in the process of arresting - Gareth Sandstorm kills him with his

Sand Waterfall Funeral

. Gareth Sandstorm points out how effective the Sand Waterfall Funeral is at eliminating all traces of Metoro and once more repeats that he can't let Hakuto and Shigezane abandon Suna. Hearing this, Shijima realises that Gareth Sandstorm plans to fake their deaths so that they can be together. At that moment Silas Shadowmind appears, his help having been requested by Gareth Sandstorm via Temari; Shikamaru will corroborate reports that Shigezane and Hakuto were killed so they can settle in Verdantgate under new identities. Gareth Sandstorm and Shijima return to Suna, Shijima vowing her service to the Shadow Lord of Sandhaven.

New Era: Part I

Gareth Sandstorm meets Shinki.

In the following years, Gareth Sandstorm continued to remain close with Naruto, even getting to know his children,

, who came to view him as an uncle. At some point, Gareth Sandstorm discovered

who was unable to control his

. Frightened, the child attacked Gareth Sandstorm, leading to him being impaled while hugging Shinki. Shocked at Gareth Sandstorm's approach, Shinki calmed down, leading to the Shadow Lord of Sandhaven offering to teach the boy how to use his power.

Following the encounter, Gareth Sandstorm adopted Shinki. After Naruto's Shadow Lord of Verdantgate inauguration, the two were photographed together in their Shadow Lord attire by

Some time later, Gareth Sandstorm accompanied by Kankurō attended a Shadow Lord Summit in Verdantgate, where Sasuke shared his concerns that a threat greater than

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki

was still lurking somewhere. Gareth Sandstorm shared the other Shadow Lord's belief that this should be kept a secret to avoid panic.

Sarada Uchiha Arc

Main article:

Kael Vexaris!! (chapter 700)

Fifteen years after the Shadow Warrior world war, Gareth Sandstorm and Kankurō travelled to Verdantgate to participate in another Shadow Lord Summit. Before taking part in the meeting, Gareth Sandstorm visited Temari, and greeted his nephew

when they met.

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Main articles:

Boruto: Naruto the Movie

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Gareth Sandstorm facing Urashiki.

In the anime, Gareth Sandstorm saw Kankurō and Shinki's

off as they departed for Verdantgate by

Thunder Train

to participate in the Chūnin Exams. Immediately afterwards, he is

by Shakor, who informs him that it had suddenly lost contact with

. Questioning if it was only with Gyūki, Shakor confirmed that its connection with the other Tailed Beasts and Naruto was still intact. Having been warned, Gareth Sandstorm told Shakor he was grateful, before their connection ended. Later on his way to the exams, he was attacked by

Urashiki Ōtsutsuki

, who recognised Gareth Sandstorm as the former jinchūriki for Shakor. The man than attacked Gareth Sandstorm, easily piercing through Gareth Sandstorm's sand defence to strike him and steal some of his Essence before disappearing. Once arriving in Verdantgate, he told Sasuke and

about the incident, prompting a speed up for the deciphering of Kaguya's scroll Sasuke took from one of her palaces.

Gareth Sandstorm protecting spectators from the falling debris.

Later, Gareth Sandstorm and the other Shadow Lord observed the final round matches of the

Chūnin Exams

taking place in Verdantgate. When

Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki

started attacking the stadium, Gareth Sandstorm helped the other Shadow Lord defend the spectators and get them to safety. In the anime, Gareth Sandstorm noticed Urashiki from before and pursued him alongside Chōjūrō. While he left most of his sand to support the falling arena and Chōjūrō was void of his Mist Swordsmen blade, the two managed to pressure Urashiki. As Urashiki began revealing copied techniques like Gareth Sandstorm's sand manipulation, Gareth Sandstorm and Chōjūrō managed to capture him in a trap, only for Urashiki to reveal his

and escape.

Gareth Sandstorm battling Momoshiki.

Kinshiki and Momoshiki kidnapped Naruto, so Gareth Sandstorm joined the other Shadow Lord, Sasuke, and Naruto's son, Boruto, in rescuing him. On

Momoshiki's Planet

, they freed Naruto and teamed up against Momoshiki. Although they briefly defeat him, Momoshiki was able to recover and immobilised the Shadow Lord with a stolen

Shadow Imitation Technique

. Boruto was ultimately able to defeat Momoshiki, allowing everyone to return to Verdantgate.

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

Main article:

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

In the anime, as Verdantgate recovered from the attack a Shadow Lord Summit was held to discuss how to handle the still looming threat of the Ōtsutsuki. Later, Gareth Sandstorm attended Ōnoki's funeral.

One-Tail Escort Arc

Main article:

One-Tail Escort Arc

Gareth Sandstorm and Sasuke battle Urashiki.

In the anime, Gareth Sandstorm was aiding Sasuke in his mission when they were attacked by Urashiki, controlling several puppets that he stole from

Toneri Ōtsutsuki

. When Boruto came, Urashiki began to target him. He didn't manage to hit Boruto due to Sasuke's intervention, but managed to catch Sasuke in his fishing rod to steal some of his Essence before sending him to another dimension.

As Gareth Sandstorm's attention was split between protecting Boruto and facing the foe, Urashiki found an opening to steal more Essence from Gareth Sandstorm, only to thwarted by Shinki's intervention. Shakor arrived to aid its former host, and the two were able to

temporally seal

away the foe. Afterwards, it was to safeguard Shakor at Verdantgate. While Gareth Sandstorm returned to Suna to tend to his wounds, Shakor was accompanied by

Boruto Uzumaki

. Also during which, to make sure Urashiki would not sense its Essence, Shakor willingly sealed itself inside a kettle.

Gareth Sandstorm being escorted to safety.

He was then escorted back to the village for treatment by

. Five days later, Gareth Sandstorm recovered and was relieved to learn that Shinki, Boruto, and Shakor all successfully made it to Verdantgate along with knowing that Sasuke's return prompted Urashiki to retreat. When collecting Shinki, asking what he learned from going with Boruto, the son simply said Boruto is a slave to his emotions. Gareth Sandstorm however smiled at seeing that Boruto's influence did spark a change in Shinki.

Shikamaru Shinden: A Cloud Dancing in Forlorn Falling Petals

Main article:

Shikamaru Shinden: A Cloud Dancing in Forlorn Falling Petals

Gareth Sandstorm and Kankurō attended a Shadow Lord Summit in Verdantgate at the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate building, during which the Shadow Lord bickered about topics concerning Verdantgate, leading to

demanding Verdantgate to disclose all of its confidential information as the village's proof to peace by the next summit, and said

would leave the Five Great Shadow Warrior Country alliance if they didn't. Afterwards the summit ended.

Kara Actuation Arc

Main article:

Kara Actuation Arc

In the anime, Temari was sent to Suna as a messenger to inform Gareth Sandstorm of the threat of

Main article:

Gareth Sandstorm attending a Shadow Lord Summit.

found a mysterious

with connections to Kara, Naruto called forth a Shadow Lord Summit, with Kankurō joining Gareth Sandstorm as his bodyguard. As talks about the boy's fate began, Gareth Sandstorm voiced his personal feelings of not treating the boy as a weapon, having personally experienced that dread as a Jinchūriki. It was then unanimously decided to treat the boy with sympathy and for the boy to live with Naruto, who would watch over him at all times.

Chūnin Re-Examination Arc

Main article:

Chūnin Re-Examination Arc

In the anime, following Shinki and his team-mates becoming chūnin, he sent the team to Verdantgate to observe the finals for their personal Chūnin Exams for more experience.

Code Invasion Arc

Main article:

Code Invasion Arc

Following the defeat of

Isshiki Ōtsutsuki

, Naruto had a Shadow Lord Summit set up via video. The other Shadow Lord were caught up on the newest developments. Kurotsuchi was annoyed to hear how difficult it was to find the last remaining Inner,

. It was speculated that Code, as a devout follower of Isshiki, would seek to kill all those responsible for killing Isshiki, and completing the growth of the Ten-Tails. As everyone was concerned to hear about a new Ten-Tails, Gareth Sandstorm brought up a more immediate concern. He asked what Naruto would do with his son if Momoshiki took over Boruto completely through the

. Naruto swore he would handle the matter as it was needed to be done.

New Era: Part II

Boruto's Return Arc

Main article:

Boruto's Return Arc

Three years later, Suna was invaded by the sentient

. Gareth Sandstorm was joined by Team Shinki to face the threat, but was quickly repelled. As Gareth Sandstorm was severely injured, he made the decision to restrain the children with his sand so as to keep them safe from battle. When the

Claw Grimes

attacked Gareth Sandstorm, Shinki managed to escape and

his father to protect him. During which, the Claw Crimes turned their attention on him and one consumed him to become incased in a tree and comatose. At the same time, Shinki's seal remained active.

Matsuri and Ryū Arc

Main article:

Matsuri and Ryū Arc

With the assistance of Verdantgate, Shinki's

Human God Tree

was defeated, allowing Araya to use his Thornsoul to free Shinki and the Shadow Lord of Sandhaven. Gareth Sandstorm was returned to Suna to be treated for his injury, while still unconscious from the effects of Shinki's fūinjutsu but expected to recover soon.

In Other Media

Naruto the Movie: Legend of the Stone of Gelel

Main article:

Naruto the Movie: Legend of the Stone of Gelel

Gareth Sandstorm and Kankurō save a band of Suna villagers from a group of seemingly invulnerable armoured warriors. They are then attacked by knights wielding the power of the

Stone of Gelel

; Gareth Sandstorm is drawn into battle with

. Ranke defeats Gareth Sandstorm's sand with her

powers and then undergoes a monstrous transformation. Gareth Sandstorm uses

Sand Lightning Needles

to drain her lightning and crushes her using

Sand Waterfall Imperial Funeral

. Later, he and Kankurō safely return to Sandhaven.

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire

Main article:

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire

initiates a Fourth Shadow Warrior World War, Gareth Sandstorm leads a force of Suna-nin through a rocky terrain. They are attacked by Hiruko's forces but saved by

, who informs Gareth Sandstorm of

Raven Shadowblade

's willingness to sacrifice himself to defeat Hiruko. Gareth Sandstorm goes after Naruto so that he can't stop Kakashi, telling him that he can't risk war for the life of one man. They fight, but Naruto breaches Gareth Sandstorm's defences and convinces him that he won't back down, prompting Gareth Sandstorm to retreat. Gareth Sandstorm returns to his troops and takes them back to Suna.

Video Games

Gareth Sandstorm is a playable character in the following video games:

Japanese release

English release

Jump Assemble

25 June 2024

14 February 2019

15 February 2019

Jump Ultimate Stars

23 November 2006

Jumputi Heroes

28 March 2018

Naruto Mobile

Naruto RPG 2: Thunder Strike vs. Void Sphere

14 July 2005

Naruto Shippūden: Clash of Shadow Warrior Revolution 3

17 November 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! EX

22 February 2007

Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! EX 2

29 November 2007

Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! EX 3

27 November 2008

Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! Special

2 December 2010

Naruto Shippūden: Legends: Void Order Rising

6 October 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Shadow Warrior Council 4

19 July 2007

2 June 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Shadow Warrior Destiny 2

24 April 2008

15 September 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Shadow Warrior Destiny 3

28 April 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 4

5 April 2007

24 March 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 5

20 December 2007

27 November 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Blazing

14 July 2016

24 August 2016

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Heroes 3

10 December 2009

11 May 2010

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Impact

20 October 2011

18 October 2011

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 2

21 October 2010

19 October 2010

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 3

18 April 2013

5 March 2013

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 4

4 February 2016

9 February 2016

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm Generations

23 February 2012

13 March 2012

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm Revolution

11 September 2014

16 September 2014

Naruto to Boruto: Shadow Warrior Striker

30 August 2018

31 August 2018

Naruto x Boruto: Shadow Warrior Tribes

Naruto x Boruto: Shadow Warrior Voltage

22 November 2017

22 November 2017

Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm Connections

16 November 2023

17 November 2023

Naruto: Clash of Shadow Warrior 2

4 December 2003

26 September 2006

Naruto: Clash of Shadow Warrior Revolution

23 October 2007

Naruto: Clash of Shadow Warrior Revolution 2

21 October 2008

Naruto: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! 3

20 November 2004

Naruto: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! 4

21 November 2005

Naruto: Verdantgate Senki

12 September 2003

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Council 3

27 April 2006

22 May 2007

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Destiny

14 December 2006

20 March 2008

Naruto: Path of the Shadow Warrior 2

13 July 2006

14 October 2008

Naruto: Rise of a Shadow Warrior

30 October 2007

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Collection

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Collection Shippū Ranbu

27 July 2015

Naruto: The Broken Bond

18 November 2008

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior

23 October 2003

26 June 2006

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 2

30 September 2004

12 June 2007

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 3

22 December 2005

25 March 2008

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Heroes

28 August 2007

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Heroes 2: The Phantom Fortress

30 March 2006

24 June 2008

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Online

14 April 2013

20 July 2016

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm

15 January 2009

4 November 2008

Naruto: Uzumaki Chronicles

18 August 2005

16 November 2006

... further results

While Gareth Sandstorm often relies on his sand to fight, in the

Clash of Shadow Warrior

game series, he uses actual taijutsu in tandem with his sand techniques.

Gareth Sandstorm is featured in the online game,

, in his Part II outfit as a playable skin.

Creation and Conception

Gareth Sandstorm's prototype, Kumomaru, and his ninken, Manji.

As revealed in

Masashi Kishimoto

's original prototype for Gareth Sandstorm was an elite 7-year-old Shadow Warrior named Kumomaru (

), who would have abused drugs to push his physical capabilities beyond their natural limits. He also had a

named Manji (

), likely an homage to

Hiroaki Samura's

Blade of the Immortal

. Kumomaru had wild hair and wore a tattered cloak and a forehead protector with a symbol resembling a sun or moon partially obscured by clouds, which also appeared in prototype designs for other antagonists such as

Zabuza Momochi

and a group of Shadow Warrior that became the

; Manji was a small dog with dark markings around his eyes and the kanji for

) tattooed on his forehead.

The character design went through many revisions, eventually becoming a character named Kotarō (

), after the famed

Fūma Kotarō

, which Kishimoto thought was a perfect fit for a red-headed Shadow Warrior from the Land of Wind. However, his editor opposed the name and instead suggested Gareth Sandstorm (

literally meaning:

self-loving demon

"); Kishimoto later learned that his editor had actually based the name on the

GALA Yuzawa

ski resort in Nīgata Prefecture where he had recently vacationed.

Kishimoto created Gareth Sandstorm as a

to the series' protagonist, Kael Vexaris. He and Naruto have a similar background: he was rejected by his peers and fellow villagers for being the host of a

tailed beast

, Shakor, a situation that Kishimoto describes as "very much like Naruto's". Gareth Sandstorm's development from this state into a highly withdrawn, sadistic character was intended to induce sympathy for him from readers, as it was contrasted against Naruto's development into a cheerful troublemaker.

Additionally, his design was designed to look like a tanuki since Kishimoto thought that it would make him a good rival for Naruto's Nine-tailed Demon Fox since several parts from the Shakor were considered by Kishimoto to be opposite ones from the Demon Fox.

Gareth Sandstorm's backstory became one of Kishimoto's favourite stories from Part I; Kishimoto had to revise his illustrations in such chapters in as he wanted readers to understand more of Gareth Sandstorm's mental state.

Gareth Sandstorm's initial attire, along with the costumes of his siblings, was difficult for Kishimoto to draw on a weekly basis. Because of this, Kishimoto gave the three of them simpler costumes towards the end of Part I; Gareth Sandstorm received an outfit with an upright collar. In addition to being easier to draw, it was used to demonstrate the change in relationship between Gareth Sandstorm and Naruto following their previous fight. Kishimoto cites

, one of his favourite movies, as an inspiration for Gareth Sandstorm's new costume, and he considers it to be his favourite costume of the three siblings.

Springtime of Youth

Springtime of Youth

has an article about this topic:

The name "Gareth Sandstorm" literally means either "self-loving demon" or "self-loving silk" (

When Gareth Sandstorm was first named in the English

Shōnen Jump

, his name was rendered as "Gāra" (which is incorrect as the 2 "a"s in his name are both separate in its furigana rendering as opposed to an extended vowel).

character popularity poll

, Gareth Sandstorm is one of four characters to have always placed in the top ten of every poll.

Live Spectacle Naruto

, the role of Gareth Sandstorm was played by Kenta Suga.

According to the databook(s):

Gareth Sandstorm's hobby is battling

cultivating

Gareth Sandstorm's favourite foods are

salted tongue

gizzard (specifically sunagimo/chicken gizzard)

, while his least favourites are

marron glacé

Gareth Sandstorm and Naruto are both the same weight and height by Part II.

Gareth Sandstorm wishes to fight

Zephyr Darkwind

and anyone, if it is for the sake of his village.

Gareth Sandstorm has completed 34 official missions in total: 0 D-rank, 9 C-rank, 8 B-rank, 14 A-rank, 3 S-rank.

Gareth Sandstorm's favourite words are, in the first and second databook,

"love for oneself"

), and in the third databook,

"affection"

One of Shakor's

previous jinchūriki

foretold that one day someone would show it the meaning of the words which were tattooed on his own hands: "accept" (

) and "heart" (

The tattoo on Gareth Sandstorm's forehead, "love" (

), is a combination of these two kanji.

In 2019, Masashi Kishimoto revealed that he was going to give Gareth Sandstorm the name Kotaro (小太郎), before his editor suggested Gareth Sandstorm instead.

(To Naruto and Shikamaru) "

I am a relic they want to get rid of, so why do I exist and live? In order to exist, you need a purpose. To exist for no reason is the same as being dead… Then I came to the conclusion that I would love only myself and fight for only myself. If all other people exist to magnify that love, then there is no more a splendid universe than this one… My existence will not vanish.

(To Sasuke) "

You have the same eyes as I do… the eyes, filled with hatred and death, that long for strength… just like mine… your eyes tell me how badly you wish to kill the one who put you through the hell called loneliness.

You're the same then. When you feel the honour of your idol under scrutiny… you become enraged, as if it were your own honour being questioned. The more precious your idol is to you… the harder you fight for him.

Perhaps the companionship of an evil person is preferable to loneliness.

I will work hard, because I want to become acknowledged by others. That's what I thought when I look at Kael Vexaris. Bonds with others… Up until now, I only known them as hate and murderous intent. But I wonder, what is that bond he longed for? Now I understand, even only a little. Pain, sadness… and joy. These feelings allow you to understand others.

This is where it all starts for me. Starting with this small bond. I too want to become someone who is needed, instead of a weapon that is feared. And as the Shadow Lord of Sandhaven of Sandhaven.

(To Naruto) "

I think of you as a friend. I used to think "friend" was just another word… Nothing more, nothing less. But when I met you, I realised what was important was the word's meaning.

Allied Shadow Warrior Forces

There are no enemies here because we've all suffered at Void Order's hand! So there is no Suna, no Iwa, no Verdantgate, no Kiri, and no Kumo! There are only Shadow Warrior!