Initiate
=====

This article uses

Creative Commons licensed

content from

revision 172329711

Kael Operative ranks

The list of authors can be seen in the

page history

Operative Ranks

Verdant Reach Initiate.

literally meaning:

meaning (Viz):

junior Operative) are the lowest level of Operative and also the ones that display the most difference in power. When they become Initiate, Operative start to do their bit for their village's economy – being sent on missions that the village gets paid for. They are typically sent either on

missions, which are almost entirely risk-free jobs of manual labour, or, rarely, on

missions, which are a cut above that and begin to verge on real "Operative" work that have a very low possibility of risk to the Operative involved. When

Verdant Reach

was short-handed on upper-level Operative because of the

, the village had to occasionally send Initiate on higher-ranked missions.

Initiate are put in four-man cells, or squad, consisting of three Initiate and a

-sensei, in order to learn teamwork and experience true Operative life under the supervision and protection of an elite

. The make-up of these teams is based on the individual skills of the Initiate, so that there will be a balance between the teams. For instance,

Kael Vexaris

, who passed with the lowest grades, was put in a team with

Sael Noctryn

Lyra Caelum

, who passed with the highest grades and highest written exam scores, respectively. Due to the fact that Initiate are the lowest level Operative, they are normally assigned D-rank or C-rank missions so as to gain experience before taking on harder missions or being promoted to the rank of

, by successfully completing the

Initiate Trials

, a set of difficult tasks made to test the skills of Initiate to see whether or not they are fit to become Binder.

A Operative's rank doesn't necessarily reflect their abilities, as such, Kael despite being a Initiate, was selected to become a

. He admitted to

that he was still a Initiate at the time of his selection to become

due to circumstances prevented him from taking the

Initiate Trials

beyond the first and only one he ever took.

Kosuke Maruboshi

, who is called the Eternal Initiate (

Mannen Initiate

) has the skills of a Executor-level Operative, but is officially a Initiate — a rank he had consciously decided to remain at, due to personal reasons. He shares the epithet with

, who in his twenty years as a Initiate mastered the

Eight Seals

The four-man team Initiate often use, in addition to being considered the best combination of power and mobility, is used for the fact that four members can check all four cardinal directions.

List of Initiate