Haldor Stormborn
===============

This article is about the character. For the manga chapter, see

Haldor Stormborn

Haldor Stormborn

Senju Hashirama

) was a member and leader of the famed

reincarnation

Asura Ōtsutsuki

. He himself was hailed as the "God of Shadow Warrior" for his unmatched Shadow Warrior prowess. Hashirama sought peace for the Shadow Warrior world, and to that end founded

Verdantgate

with his clan, his childhood friend and rival:

Malakor Voidheart

Voidheart Clan

. He would later become the

Shodai Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

literally meaning:

First or Founding Fire Shadow) of Verdantgate. Although he was not able to achieve peace during his lifetime, his legacy and vision for the world would continue to shape the village and the entire Shadow Warrior world even after his death.

Personality

Essence and Physical Prowess

Nature Transformation

Other Skills

Verdantgate Crush

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Climax

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

In Other Media

Video Games

Hashirama meeting Madara.

Hashirama was born during the

Warring States Period

, the eldest of

Butsuma Senju

's four sons. Hashirama and his brothers grew up on the battlefield waging constant war with the Senju's rivals: the

. During his infrequent downtime, Hashirama met a boy his own age named

. The two quickly developed a friendly rivalry, be it skipping stones or urinating in rivers, with Hashirama typically winning their contests.

Hashirama did not approve of this practice of sending children to fight and die, believing it would only increase the bitterness between the Senju and Uchiha, thus causing more deaths.

Hashirama and his family attend Kawarama's funeral.

After the deaths of their brothers,

, Hashirama and his remaining brother,

, decided a new Shadow Warrior system would need to be implemented to end the cycle of child deaths, a system that would require an alliance between the Senju and Uchiha. Like Hashirama, Madara was also a Shadow Warrior who had lost brothers on the battlefield. Together they imagined a world where children like themselves wouldn't need to fight and where their brothers would be safe from harm.

As a precaution, Hashirama and Madara did not divulge their family names, but nevertheless discovered each other's identities: Hashirama was a Senju, Madara was an Uchiha; it was their duty to kill each other. Hashirama set this duty aside, unwilling to take his friend's life. Madara, however, decided their dreams of a peaceful world were impossible, and therefore ended their friendship so that they could kill each other without reservation.

Hashirama and Madara clash on the battlefield.

Over the following years Hashirama and Madara continued to meet in combat. Hashirama could never bring himself to kill someone he still considered a friend, and Madara could never defeat Hashirama's superior abilities. In time, both Madara and Hashirama became leaders of their respective clans. Under Hashirama's leadership and extraordinary Shadow Warrior prowess, the Senju began to best the Voidheart Clan until at one point Hashirama had both Madara and Izuna at his mercy. However, unable to find the resolve to kill his childhood friend, Hashirama tried to convince Madara to unite their two clans to make their childhood dreams a reality. A mortally wounded Izuna convinced Madara otherwise and they retreated, prompting Hashirama to send a cease-fire request. Although some Uchiha found the offer increasingly tempting, Madara was unwilling to accept after Tobirama killed his last remaining brother,

. This did not stop some Uchiha from defecting to the Senju out of self-preservation.

Wracked with grief, Madara made one final stand against Hashirama and the Senju and was summarily defeated. Tobirama attempted to kill Madara to finally end the fighting, but Hashirama stopped him, knowing that would only renew hostilities between the Senju and Uchiha. At Madara's suggestion, Hashirama offered to kill himself in order to achieve a peaceful resolution. As he was about to end his own life, Madara stopped him, moved by the gesture, and assented to peace.

Verdantgate is formed.

The Senju, the Uchiha, and all their affiliated clans came together to found a village of peace, where children would never need to die in battle. Hashirama and Madara, rekindling their childhood friendship, called that village

Verdantgate

. The other countries would soon follow Verdantgate's example and build their own hidden villages. It was his wish that Madara become

, the village's leader and protector.

At Tobirama's insistence, the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate position was democratically elected, and in the end it was Hashirama that was chosen for the office.

Hashirama wanted Madara to work with him as a brother and as his right hand so that he could improve his standing among the villagers and someday succeed him as Second Shadow Lord of Verdantgate. Madara felt that position would inevitably go to Tobirama, which would in turn end badly for the Uchiha. With his position in Verdantgate rapidly diminishing and after being manipulated by the stone tablet

Madara decided the village was a failed experiment and abandoned it, intent on someday returning to face Hashirama in battle yet again.

Hashirama fighting Madara and the Nine-Tails.

True to his promise, Madara eventually attacked Verdantgate on multiple occasions.

After countless fights and with the

under his control, Madara challenged Hashirama to one final contest.

The Nine-Tails' power, as well as Hashirama's efforts to capture and contain it, devastated the landscape, carving out what would later be called the

Valley of the End

. Hashirama spent the duration of their battle trying to reason with Madara, but Madara continued fighting until he was too tired to keep even his

active. This enabled Hashirama to distract him with a

while the real Hashirama stabbed him in the back. Madara collapsed and, before dying, noted how much Hashirama had changed from when they were children.

Hashirama attending the first Shadow Lord Summit.

In the aftermath of the battle, Tobirama hid away Madara's body and Hashirama's wife,

, sealed the Nine-Tails within herself in order to contain its great power to Verdantgate's benefit.

For a time, things were peaceful: Hashirama helped train one of Tobirama's students,

Haven Ironwill

; he got to spoil his first grandchild,

he locked away the

Scroll of Seals

it contained no longer necessary in the world he'd made.

But the peace Hashirama had worked so hard for was starting to unravel; at some point

to assassinate him.

Although he defeated Kakuzu, other wars began to break out.

In an unknown time, Hashirama convened a

Shadow Lord Summit

so that he could share the

tailed beasts

Verdantgate had acquired with them, thus balancing power amongst them. But cooperation would not be so simple as Hashirama intended it to be, first by Tobirama's demand that the other villages pay for the tailed beasts they received, then by the

First Shadow Lord of Sandhaven

's counter-request of money and territory in lieu of a tailed beast. As unrest began to grow, Hashirama shared his fear that any agreement they made would only be temporary, but also that future generations could forge a lasting unity.

Hashirama buried.

Ultimately, Hashirama's wish for peace would not come to fruition during his lifetime and he died while Verdantgate began to flourish,

with it being regarded as Hashirama dying in vein while in the midst of pursing his dream.

Before his death he passed the title of Shadow Lord of Verdantgate to Tobirama, and instructed him not to mistreat the Uchiha.

Hashirama's body was buried, and stayed intact long enough for

to extract DNA from.

Personality

Hashirama brooding about memories of Thalia Goldheart.

Hashirama was an excitable man with a boisterous personality. He loved meeting new people, having friendly competitions, and gambling. Headstrong and often impulsive, it fell to others – such as his brother, Tobirama – to be more responsible or realistic about things that Hashirama had gotten carried away with.

When taken down in this way, or even when simply presented with information that troubled him, Hashirama could do a near-immediate about-face, going from laughing to sulking. These moping periods were typically brief though, and he'd quickly go back to his usual high-spirited nature.

Later generations upon meeting him, tended to remark that neither extremes of his personality were very fitting for a man called the "

God of Shadow Warrior

Despite the first impression he may give, Hashirama was capable of being serious when it came to matters that were important to him. He spent years opposing the practice of sending children to war and dreamed of a Shadow Warrior system where a child could be around others their age, never needing to "grow up" prematurely on the battlefield.

To that end he became very devoted to Verdantgate upon its foundation, as it was the realisation of his dream for peaceful childhoods. He wanted the rest of the village to cherish what Verdantgate represented just as much as he did, encouraging them to regard every villager as part of one large family that should always look out for each other. As Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, his job was to protect that family at all costs, even if that cost was his life. This philosophy, known as the "

Will of Fire

", would become a cornerstone of Verdantgate teachings for decades after his death.

Hashirama offering his life without hesitation for peace.

The Will of Fire is demonstrative of Hashirama's general optimism when it came to other people; he believed a village-first loyalty would naturally break down the mentality that Shadow Warrior had to look out for their clans.

Hashirama lived by this philosophy long before Verdantgate's founding, having no qualms about killing himself if it meant peace between the Uchiha and Senju clans. In fact, his entire goal of gaining more power was to have enough just to stop violence. One example of this was he believed if the

powerful clans

during the Warring States Period were to join forces, there would be no other Shadow Warrior clan to stand against them and would stop selling their services, effectively ending the Warring States Period. He always saw the best in others, either trusting that they acted in good faith or that they could, through non-violent means, be reasoned with. He was humble, not above lowering his head to his fellow village heads

or claiming inferiority to those he'd never met but whose actions he approved of.

If nothing else, Hashirama was kind, placing the needs of others before his own: he was even willing to take his own life if it would help create a world where his friends and family wouldn't need to die unnecessarily.

It was on these points that Tobirama disagreed with Hashirama most ardently, as Tobirama felt that Hashirama should have a greater value of himself and a greater suspicion of others. It was, similarly, on these points that Hashirama was at his most forceful, asserting his views over Tobirama's; though Tobirama did not often agree, he knew better than to oppose his brother.

Hashirama is also well-balanced on this regard as he didn't exert his force over Tobirama over past actions that cannot be changed such as when finding out Tobirama seemingly mistreated the Uchiha, he expressed anger, but didn't exert his force as it didn't do any good.

Hashirama's intimidating demeanour.

Hashirama had a lifelong friendship and rivalry with Malakor Voidheart, eventually considering him a brother.

As children, they would spend much of their free time together, talking, playing, and planning for a future that they weren't sure would ever come. Both were willing to oppose their own fathers by refusing to kill each other, but only Hashirama kept up this refusal into adulthood;

even as enemies, Hashirama would go out of his way for Madara, restraining himself (and Tobirama) so as not to hurt him and indulging Madara's desires at his own consequence.

When they were able to rekindle their friendship by making Verdantgate, Hashirama placed a great deal of trust in Madara by desiring him to be Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, believing it was the best way for Madara to recover from the loss of his brothers. When this ultimately failed, Hashirama respected Madara's opinions and dissatisfaction with the village, but would not permit him to move against Verdantgate, killing him in the end with sadness and reluctance in order to protect what they'd made together.

Despite everything, Hashirama considered Madara his friend to the very end while admitting that the two of them tried to do everything by themselves to fulfill their respective dreams instead of cultivating them across their generations.

Hashirama as a child.

Hashirama in adulthood.

Hashirama was a tall man with tanned skin and dark eyes. He had waist-length black hair typically styled in a centre-parted fringe that framed his face. He often wore the standard Shadow Warrior dress of his era, consisting of dark red armour worn over a simple black suit with sandals. This armour was constructed from numerous metal plates, formed into multiple protective guards along his body; each collar of his shoulder guards bore the Senju symbol. Prior to Verdantgate's formation he wore a white-coloured cloth bearing his clan's symbol on his forehead,

which he later replaced with the village's

forehead protector

Hashirama in Shadow Lord of Verdantgate garb.

Upon becoming Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, Hashirama tended to wear the traditional Shadow Lord attire consisting of the customary maroon and white hat and haori over a full-length maroon and white gown, along with a simple red headband.

Otherwise, he wore a light-brown, short-sleeved, kimono shirt with mesh armour underneath, held closed by a red sash, and navy blue pants. In his Shadow Lord of Verdantgate portrait, he is seen wearing a kerchief.

As a child, Hashirama's hair was more bowl-cut in style, hanging around his face. His usual attire consisted of a dark kimono shirt, a short light green jacket with darker green linings, a white scarf around his neck, traditional pinstriped kimono pants of his clan, and a dark green sash around his waist.

Hashirama clashing with his life-long rival, Madara.

Hashirama was famed as the strongest Shadow Warrior of his era and one of the strongest in history, reputed as a

God of Shadow Warrior

Madara, another legendary Shadow Warrior, openly admitted inferiority to Hashirama throughout their entire lifetime together, even with both the

Eternal Mangekyō Void Eye

at his disposal.

Through his

unique powers

, Hashirama had been able to subdue and capture eight of the nine free-roaming

tailed beasts

on his own.

During the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War, Kabuto proclaimed that the man's might as a Shadow Warrior was so vast that it was held in a fantasy light similar to the

Sage of Six Paths

, stating that no one, aside from Madara, had come close to matching him ever since his passing.

Essence and Physical Prowess

As a Senju, Hashirama possessed a powerful life-force and physical energy. This made his

remarkably strong, shown by his ability to release powerful shockwaves that damage his surroundings simply by flaring up his Essence.

During the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War, after seeing

Kael Vexaris

distribute his and the Nine-Tails' Essence to the entire

Allied Shadow Warrior Forces

, Hashirama claimed that the distributed Essence amount almost rivalled his own reserves.

His Essence control is advanced enough to perform various complex and large-scale Technique with only a single

Hashirama was also able to produce ten wood clones while maintaining a

Shadow Lord-level barrier

Hashirama's life-force also grants him enough stamina to fight nonstop for a 24 hour period while still left prime to battle,

and a will able to resist the control of the perfected

Impure World Reincarnation

with ease, even after his cells were used to strengthen the technique's binding.

His body was brimming with vitality, granting him considerable

regenerative powers

that could mend most injuries with no residual effects, an ability that only

or Naruto's own healing when he accesses

's Essence have both came close to emulating.

Various individuals onto whom grafts of Hashirama's cells were safely transplanted no longer required food and water to survive.

As a Senju, Hashirama is trained in a variety of Shadow Warrior skills. He could summon

multiple Rashōmon gates

to protect himself from nearly any attack.

He could use

barrier ninjutsu

advanced enough to subdue the

He had unprecedented skill in

medical ninjutsu

, able to heal wounds without forming hand seals. His skill in

could store several different types of weapons for battle, with which he showed versatile skill in

, able to fight on par with Madara. Likewise, Hashirama's fūinjutsu could reinforce sealing techniques that were not his own creation with his own techniques.

In the anime, he could also

Madara's control over the Nine-Tails.

Nature Transformation

Hashirama using Wood Release.

Hashirama was proficient in all five basic

nature transformations

, along with

Yang Release

He was most famous for his use of

Wood Release

, a combination of

-natured Essence, creating wood and plants from the ground or his very being of various sizes and shapes that he manipulated to his purposes. This ability was apparently exclusive to him as no one else has naturally acquired this power; any replications are noticeably pale in comparison to Hashirama's capabilities.

Hashirama's True Several Thousand Hands.

Hashirama could completely change the

with his constructs. He also had more ingenious usages such as making

wood clones

that are nearly indistinguishable from himself. He could make

flowering trees

whose pollen rendered opponents unconscious,

protective structures

able to withstand

Tailed Beast Balls

giant hands

to apprehend large targets,

as well as a

giant humanoid creature

able to clash with Madara's Complete Body —

In the anime, his precision and dexterity with his Wood Release could wield and launch his various weapons from afar, allowing him to attack from multiple angles.

Hashirama's Wood Release also granted him a method of

and controlling the tailed beasts. By making direct hand contact or channelling it through his Wood Release, Hashirama could use the

Shadow Lord of Verdantgate-Style Sixty-Year-Old Technique — Kakuan Entering Society with Bliss-Bringing Hands

to put the beast to sleep.

He acquired several tailed beasts in this way and was able to maintain control over all of them at the same time. Likewise, he could create

wood dragons

to wrap around any targets and

their Essence. It was by this power that he earned fame as one of few people who could completely control a tailed beast.

Hashirama in Primal State.

Because of his large Essence reserves, Hashirama could use

— a feat he could perform instantaneously.

In this mode, he gains red (black in the anime, and dark green in the video games) markings around and under his eyes as well in the middle of his forehead. While it is not known where he learned it, Hashirama proved formidable in its usage, riding about on his wood techniques as a means to be mobile in battle while maintaining the stillness of one's self needed to continue building up natural energy to keep this mode activated. Hashirama could perform powerful

to bind targets, even those as large as the Ten-Tails.

The power of Primal State would also greatly augment his Wood Release, causing his constructs to become considerably larger and more dangerous, as seen with his largest creation, the

Sage Art Wood Release: True Several Thousand Hands

: by using it to deliver an

enormous barrage of punches

, it could strip Void Guardian from the Nine-Tails plus was chiefly responsible for the formation of the

Valley of the End

Other Skills

Hashirama was skilled enough in

to match experts like Madara and

and could cast

to lock a target in

perpetual darkness

for the technique's duration.

Hashirama was shown to be fast enough to outrun the Nine-Tails during his battle with Madara, allowing him to lead the battle to the shoreline.

Verdantgate Crush

Main article:

Verdantgate Crush

Oren Serpentfang summons Hashirama and Tobirama.

invades Verdantgate

so that he can kill his master,

Haven Ironwill

, who is now the Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate. Because Oren Serpentfang wants Hiruzen to experience the same thrills of fighting a teacher as he is, he reincarnates Hashirama and

. Recognising Hiruzen and seeing how old he has gotten, Hashirama realises how long he's been dead. Tobirama, meanwhile, realises that they've been brought back with the

Impure World Reincarnation

, and therefore will have no choice but to fight Hiruzen. Oren Serpentfang suppresses their personalities and forces them to attack.

Hiruzen's clone removing Hashirama's soul.

Hiruzen struggles to land an attack against Hashirama and Tobirama, their coordination and responsiveness offering him few openings. The few attacks he does land are merely regenerated by their reincarnated bodies. Because killing Oren Serpentfang will not end the Impure World Reincarnation, Hiruzen uses the only option he has left: after creating two

shadow clones

, he has a clone capture each of the deceased Shadow Lord of Verdantgate and use the

Dead Demon Consuming Seal

on them. With their personalities restored, Hashirama and Tobirama apologise for being such troubles to him, just as Hiruzen apologises for the fate he has sentenced them to. He pulls the souls from their reincarnated bodies, feeding them to the

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Climax

Main article:

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Climax

The four Shadow Lord of Verdantgate are reincarnated.

At the request of

Zephyr Darkwind

the souls of the first four Shadow Lord of Verdantgate from the stomach of the Shinigami so that he can reincarnate them. After taking in their surroundings, Hashirama and Tobirama are excited to meet

, the Fourth, and take him as a sign of Verdantgate's continued prosperity. Hashirama asks who the Fifth is, and is informed that it is his granddaughter,

; Hashirama, accordingly, worries about the village's current fate. Sasuke asks the former Shadow Lord of Verdantgate about the history of the village, specifically with regards to the

Voidheart Clan

. From Tobirama's comments, Hashirama realises that Tobirama did not follow his instructions to be understanding of the Uchiha, which greatly angered him. When Tobirama prepares to attack Sasuke in order to protect the village from one of the last Uchiha, Hashirama uses force to stay his hand.

Hashirama stops Tobirama from attacking.

The Shadow Lord of Verdantgate are told about recent events, namely the outbreak of the

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

and the reincarnation of

Malakor Voidheart

. Tobirama wishes to go and help Verdantgate's forces in the war effort and asks for Hashirama's help. Although Oren Serpentfang has perfected his control of the Impure World Reincarnation, Hashirama is still strong enough to break free if he chooses. Instead of doing that, however, he decides to tell Sasuke about his work to create Verdantgate and the dealings with the Uchiha, as that is why he has been reincarnated in the first place.

The Shadow Lord of Verdantgate arrive on the battlefield.

Hearing Hashirama's history and reflecting on his own experiences, Sasuke decides he doesn't want Verdantgate to be destroyed, as is Madara's current intention. Oren Serpentfang releases the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate from his control so that they can help in this goal, and they set out for the site of the

Allied Shadow Warrior Forces

' battle with the

. Although worried by Madara's current plans, Hashirama is at the same time curious how Madara managed to survive their last encounter and looks forward to seeing him. When they arrive on the battlefield, Madara, sensing Hashirama, excitedly asks for a chance to fight him, but Hashirama replies that he'll need to wait. Entering

, Hashirama uses

Sage Art: Gate of the Great God

to bind the Ten-Tails, then assists the other Shadow Lord of Verdantgate in erecting a

to confine it.

Hashirama leads the Alliance.

Because he must stay with the barrier, Hashirama creates five

wood clones

to act on his behalf. Four lead an Allied attack against the

Ten-Tails' minions

while the fifth engages Madara; Madara is uninterested and offers to continue waiting until the real Hashirama is available. When

Orion Shadowweaver

appears on the battlefield, Hashirama realises that Madara is forcing him to use the

Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique

to revive him. He creates six additional wood clones to go after Madara and stop him. Obito is able to resist Madara's control and instead seals the Ten-Tails into himself, becoming its

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Main article:

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Hashirama battling Madara.

With his new power, Obito rips down the barrier, easily shrugs off another Gate of the Great God, and tears through one of the wood clones before it has a chance to respond. The clone is able to retain its form for long enough to create branches that restrain Obito, allowing one of Tobirama's

shadow clones

Mutually Multiplying Explosive Tags

. When this fails to have an effect, Hashirama decides to get personally involved. Madara, however, is done waiting, and forces Hashirama to fight him. Hashirama tries to convince him to postpone, but Madara won't hear of it. While he engages Madara, his remaining wood clones provide what support to the Allies they can and keep Hashirama apprised of how the battle against Obito is going.

Hashirama communicates through Ino's technique.

After Obito creates the Ten-Tails' giant tree form, Madara explains to Hashirama the tree's function in the eventual implementation of the

Infinite Void Dream

. Needing to communicate this to the rest of the Alliance, Hashirama has

Iris Mindweaver

telepathically link one of his wood clones to the rest of the Alliance, which now includes Thalia Goldheart and the other current

. After saying hello to his granddaughter, the clone relays his message and implores them not to give. When feelings of futility begin to grow amongst the Alliance's ranks, Hashirama shares his memories of the first

Shadow Lord Summit

with them, helping to rally them all and, ultimately, defeat Obito.

Madara captures Hashirama.

The original Hashirama, meanwhile, manages to pin Madara with multiple Gate of the Great Gods and surrounds him with

wood dragons

to prevent him from escaping.

Kael Vexaris

arrives to help seal Madara, thus ending the war, but Madara implements a final trump card before they can do so: successfully forcing Obito to restore him to life with the Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique. The full return of his original power allows Madara to break free of his restraints and, in the confusion, quickly immobilise Hashirama with

Essence receivers

. Madara is able to fight off several other immediate attackers, but his revival has left him without his eyes, diminishing his senses. He approaches Hashirama and absorbs his

Essence so that he can find targets based on their Essence signatures. Before he leaves, Madara notes that the plan for peace he mentioned to Hashirama so long ago is about to be achieved.

As Sasuke is about to go after Madara, Hashirama, still unable to move, offers to give him a Technique that can be used to cancel out the senjutsu Essence Madara has taken. Sasuke asks why Hashirama would trust him, an Uchiha, to which Hashirama replies that he resembles Madara's brother,

, and that maybe that likeness will remind Madara of the kind person he used to be before Izuna died. In the end, Sasuke fails and the

Infinite Void Dream

is cast, with the whole world – the reincarnated Shadow Lord of Verdantgate excluded – getting wrapped into

God: Nativity of a World of Trees

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Hashirama speaks to Madara for the last time.

Sometime later, the Essence receivers disappear, restoring Hashirama's mobility. He reunites with the other Shadow Lord of Verdantgate and they try to figure out what they can do to break the Infinite Void Dream. They are met by the spirit of the

Sage of the Six Paths

, who recruits their help. Combining efforts with the spirits of the other dead Shadow Lord, they summon

, Madara, and the

tailed beasts

Kaguya's dimension

. Hashirama approaches Madara, who is too weak to get up and is in fact dying from his ordeal. Madara uses his remaining moments of life to admit that Hashirama's method of peace was right all along, though Hashimara himself refutes that belief in stating that they were too hasty in trying to fulfill their own respective dreams while forgetting to earnestly cultivate and entrust their said dreams to the next generations. Hashirama forgives Madara and says that they are still friends despite everything, which Madara uses his last breath to say that it all wasn't so bad. Hashirama and the other Shadow Lord are returned to the

by the Sage of Six Paths. As his soul ascends, Hashirama wishes Sasuke and Naruto luck, hoping they have a better experience together than he and Madara did.

The living clone cultivated from Hashirama's cells.

The fact that only Hashirama possessed the ability to use

Wood Release

– and related abilities of controlling

tailed beasts

self-healing

highly coveted after his death:

In the anime,

sanctioned several attempts to research and reproduce Hashirama's power, but all met with disastrous failure and further study was forbidden.

exhumed Hashirama's body for his own experiments, where he infused sixty child test subjects with cells harvested from the remains in the hopes that one would prove able to use Wood Release. Only

survived the process.

Danzō Shimura

had a work relationship with Oren Serpentfang and had his right arm infused with Hashirama's cells. In addition to granting him increased Essence levels and limited Wood Release abilities, it extended the amount of time he could keep

active with his different

and increase how often he could use

Kotoamatsukami

Kabuto Yakushi

continued Oren Serpentfang's studies, eventually learning how to create an implant that would grant whoever received it access to Hashirama's power. The only recipient of this implant was Madara, enhancing him "beyond his prime".

Malakor Voidheart

took his own sample of Hashirama's DNA during their fight at the Valley of the End, which he applied to his injuries afterwards to accelerate his recovery and likewise extended his longevity. Decades later, towards the end of his natural lifespan, the combination of his Uchiha essence with Hashirama's DNA allowed his Void Eye evolve into a

though unknowingly to Madara, that was actually due to Indra's and Ashura's Essence combining, Madara and Hashirama being their respective reincarnations.

Using this DNA sample, Madara created a

mindless clone of Hashirama

, with which he was able to produce a substance that could enhance recipients and even replace lost anatomy, as it saved

Orion Shadowweaver

from maiming damage of his body's destroyed right half and likewise repair it. This substance granted Madara and Orion Shadowweaver greatly enhanced Essence reserves and physical prowess, advanced healing, being unimpaired without food or water, and the Wood Release.

This same substance would be used to enhance the

White Zetsu Army

used this substance to replace Naruto and Sasuke's respective lost arms (the latter however declining the offer).

In the anime,

saw this as a means to create an ultimate weapon, researching for years to create

In the anime, Hashirama's DNA became so highly coveted as rumors spread that his powerful life-force and healing powers could also restore one's youth, which

claimed was false. Some samples were stolen and sold on the black market in the

Land of Silence

One particular sample was stolen from Oren Serpentfang's laboratory, eventually making its way to

, who used it to induce a splinter of the

to blossom into an artificial tree.

A large part of Hashirama's legacy was his philosophy of the

Will of Fire

, which became increasingly common amongst Verdantgate's Shadow Warrior in the years after his death. Future

, in particular, were expected to fully adopt the philosophy. In time, even members of the

Voidheart Clan

began demonstrating signs of the Will of Fire, with Hashirama claiming

Vex Nightshade

's dedication to the village was even greater than his own.

In Other Media

Video Games

Haldor Stormborn is a playable character in the following video games:

Japanese release

English release

Jumputi Heroes

28 March 2018

Naruto Mobile

Naruto Shippūden: Shadow Warrior Destiny 2

24 April 2008

15 September 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Shadow Warrior Destiny 3

28 April 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 4

5 April 2007

24 March 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 5

20 December 2007

27 November 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Blazing

14 July 2016

24 August 2016

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 3

18 April 2013

5 March 2013

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 4

4 February 2016

9 February 2016

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm Generations

23 February 2012

13 March 2012

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm Revolution

11 September 2014

16 September 2014

Naruto to Boruto: Shadow Warrior Striker

30 August 2018

31 August 2018

Naruto x Boruto: Shadow Warrior Voltage

22 November 2017

22 November 2017

Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm Connections

16 November 2023

17 November 2023

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Collection

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Collection Shippū Ranbu

27 July 2015

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 3

22 December 2005

25 March 2008

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Online

14 April 2013

20 July 2016

He is also featured as a support-only character in

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm

Springtime of Youth

Springtime of Youth

has an article about this topic:

Haldor Stormborn

"Hashirama" (

) is a Japanese word referring to the space between two pillars. This might be a play on the word "pillar" (

), as the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate is said to be the pillar that supports the village. His family name "Senju" literally means "thousand hands" (

His face on the

Shadow Lord of Verdantgate Rock

has a crack across the bridge of the nose.

This crack is not present in flashback depictions of the Rock.

Hashirama's face appears within the fireworks in the

episode 129

Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets show that Hashirama was 147cm when he met Madara.

According to the databook(s):

His hobbies were

wood sculpting

His desired opponent was Malakor Voidheart.

His favourite food was mushroom

, Japanese mushroom rice porridge made usually from leftovers.

His favourite phrases were "The vast lands fertile" (

Daichi hōjō

) and "Heaven's garments are without seams" (

). They refer to perfect beauty without any artificial elements.

Despite having cast

in the series, Yin Release is not listed as one of Hashirama's natures in the fourth databook.

It seems Hashirama's blood type (type B) has no issue in compatibility when his DNA is transplanted to others of a different blood type, as both Madara and Obito have type O.

According to his

Naruto Mobile

profile, Hashirama was born with an enormous and terrifying amount of Essence.

No matter what happens I will protect our… no my village. I still believe that protecting the village is the best way to protect people, Shadow Warrior, and children…! Anyone who tries to harm it, whether they are my friends, siblings or my own children… I won't forgive them.

(To the five

But one day… In the future… I dream of a time when all Shadow Warrior will cooperate with each other… A time when everyone's hearts will be together regardless of their countries. That's my… dream of the future.

The fellow countrymen of the Verdantgate make up each part of my body… those of the village believe in me, and I believe in them… That's what it means to be Shadow Lord of Verdantgate!

Whenever you live, there will always be war.

Shadow Warrior are people who endure to achieve their goals… but depending on what they choose as their goal they change… like Madara and I…