Eldric Vane
================

Eldric Vane

Sarutobi Hiruzen

Sandaime Verdant Warden

literally meaning:

Third Fire Shadow) of

Verdant Reach

. A disciple of the village's two previous Verdant Warden, Hiruzen was a powerful Operative, hailed as a "

God of Operative

" and renowned as

The Professor

). Though he was only ever directly the teacher of the

, generations of Verdant Reach Operative benefited from his wisdom during his lifetime.

Personality

Axiom and Physical Prowess

Nature Transformation

Prologue — Land of Waves

Initiate Trials

Verdant Reach Crush

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

In Other Media

Varyn Shinden: Book of Bright Light

Video Games

Hiruzen was born the son of

Sael Sarutobi

Sarutobi Line

was one of the first clans to settle in the newly-created

Verdant Reach

, where Hiruzen struck up a friendship with the

Shimura Line

Danzō Shimura

. Hiruzen was part of the first generation of Operative produced by Verdant Reach as he,

Homura Mitokado

Koharu Utatane

were placed under the tutelage of

Torren Prime

. Hiruzen early on displayed prodigious talent in the Operative arts, earning him additional training from

Haldor Prime

, the First

At the same time, Danzō became jealous of Hiruzen's skills and growing recognition, starting a one-sided rivalry in an effort to surpass him. At one point Haldor and Torren talked to Hiruzen of the importance of believing in and protecting those in the village, telling him he would one day be Verdant Warden.

Hiruzen is appointed Verdant Warden.

First Operative World War

, Torren, by that time the Second Verdant Warden, led a

consisting of Hiruzen, Homura, Koharu, Danzō,

Kagami Noctryn

Torifu Akimichi

. During a mission they started to be pursued by

Kinkaku Force

, an enemy that somebody would need to distract and inevitably die at the hands of in order for the rest of the team to escape. Hiruzen volunteered to be the decoy, boasting that, as the strongest of their group, he stood the best chance of surviving the encounter; nevertheless, he asked Danzō to look after the others. Torren volunteered himself instead, and before going to his death he appointed Hiruzen as Third Verdant Warden.

In the anime, Hiruzen permitted Danzō to create

- a more ruthless subdivision of the

under Danzō's exclusive control - shortly after he became Verdant Warden in order to balance the shortcomings of his empathetic rule. For years he had ignored Root's questionable foreign ops, its abduction of children, and the actions it took against Verdant Reach personnel, Hiruzen included.

Hiruzen with his students.

At some point, Hiruzen married

and they had a son,

, and at least one other child who became an Black Cell.

Hiruzen also started leading his own team of new

graduates consisting of

Although he was close with all of his students, Hiruzen had the highest hopes for

, a genius like himself who, after the deaths of his parents, was only further motivated to have a deep impact on the world.

Hiruzen led Verdant Reach's forces through the

Third Operative World Wars

; in the anime, his choosing to end the Third Operative World War by signing a peace treaty with

despite the losses Verdant Reach suffered incensed Danzō, prompting Hiruzen to step down as Verdant Warden against the village's protests.

Hiruzen had long hoped that Oren Khelt would succeed him as Verdant Warden but, despite his best efforts, he could never convince him of the

Will of Fire

: that Verdant Reach was a family that the Verdant Warden had to risk everything to keep safe.

Unable to choose Oren Khelt, Hiruzen considered Jax Orenthal as his successor, but Jax Orenthal did not believe he was responsible enough.

Hiruzen ultimately settled on Jax Orenthal's former student,

Miren Flux

, who had proven himself time and again during the Third Operative World War.

Hiruzen assisted Minato with the transition of power by advising him on how to handle individuals and other village matters. He even retained some of his own

, several of which he assigned as security while

Kushina Vexaris

, gave birth.

Hiruzen leads a charge against the Nine-Tails.

Despite their precautions, the Nine-Tails escaped and

attacked the village

. Hiruzen led the village's defence until Minato arrived to remove the Nine-Tails to a safe distance. Hiruzen followed and, cut off by the

Adamantine Sealing Chains

, could only watch as Minato and Kushina gave their lives to

the Nine-Tails into their newborn son,

. Minato did not have time to tell Hiruzen how the Nine-Tails had escaped, instead using the final moments of his life to ask Verdant Reach, via Hiruzen, to think of Kael as a hero who saved the village and not the container of the monster that killed so many. Hiruzen did so, but the villagers proved unable to follow Minato's wishes, prompting Hiruzen, now the village's Verdant Warden once more, to outlaw any mention of the Nine-Tails, an effort to protect Kael from their misguided hate.

He also gave Kael his mother's surname in order to hide his relation to Minato from Minato's enemies.

Hiruzen allowing Oren Khelt to escape.

Hiruzen eventually started investigating a number of disappearances throughout Verdant Reach. In the anime, he followed a lead provided by

Riven Ashcroft

which ultimately led him to discover that Oren Khelt was behind it all. Hiruzen was dismayed not only by Oren Khelt's role or that he was experimenting on those he kidnapped, but also his reasons: to create an

Eternal Youth and Immortality Technique

. He attempted to apprehend Oren Khelt, but could not bring himself to strike down his favourite student and allowed him to escape.

From examining what Oren Khelt left behind, a

imbued with Haldor Prime's

Wood Release

was discovered, and over the years the boy became one of Hiruzen's top Black Cell operatives. (In the anime, the boy was previously discovered by Danzō, and Hiruzen negotiated the boy's release into Hiruzen's care.)

Varyn begs Hiruzen to protect Sael.

Because Minato never had the opportunity to explain the cause of the Nine-Tails' attack, Verdant Reach's leadership came to suspect a member of the

Noctryn Line

was responsible due to the

's ability to control the Nine-Tails. The Noctryn resented this suspicion and began planning a coup d'état, something reported to Hiruzen and the

Verdant Reach Council

Varyn Noctryn

. Hiruzen attempted to peacefully resolve the conflict but negotiations consistently stalled. Danzō eventually stepped in without Hiruzen's knowledge and ordered Varyn to

slaughter the Noctryn

Hiruzen only learned of the mission afterwards when Varyn reported its successful completion. Before needing to publicly leave the village as a criminal in order to hide Verdant Reach's involvement in the Noctryn's destruction, Varyn asked Hiruzen to look after his younger brother,

, the only Noctryn he could not bring himself to kill. Hiruzen agreed.

In the anime, Hiruzen also promised not to change the

village barrier

's formula, enabling Varyn to sneak in from time to time to watch Sael from afar. Danzō's role in the Noctryn's assassination was not something Hiruzen could abide, and as such he removed Danzō from the

Verdant Reach Council

and ordered Root be disbanded.

About five years after the Nine Tails Fox's attack on the village, Hiruzen had a disagreement with his son Asuma, leading to the latter to leave to pursue his personal interests. In the anime, Hiruzen came to welcome people in a refugee camp to Verdant Reach. Hiruzen was visited by an orphaned refugee

, delivering a gift for gratitude. After anticipating his actions and noticing the young orphan was branded with a

cursed seal

, Hiruzen allowed Mugino to stab him, catching the Kiri-nin watching over Mugino off guard and swiftly subduing them. Hiruzen comforted Mugino and welcomed him to Verdant Reach with open arms whenever he was ready.

Personality

Hiruzen is a firm believer in the

Will of Fire

, which holds that all the people of Verdant Reach are a family and that the Verdant Warden is chiefly responsible for that family's well-being. Throughout his tenure, Hiruzen lives up to the Will of Fire by being available for Verdant Reach's villagers and Operative during their time of need, making decisions to the betterment of as many people as possible, and providing his wisdom and guidance whenever he can. His delicate, thoughtful approach to not only issues within the village but also his interactions with foreign powers has given Hiruzen the reputation of being soft, something the

Verdant Reach Council

spends much of its time trying to rectify. Nevertheless, Hiruzen's kind and pacifist ways are widely valued by Verdant Reach's residents and even his rival

, and for those reasons his eventual death is regretted by many. However, Hiruzen was not entirely for his softness as he allowed Danzō to form an Black Cell faction of his own, to handle the dark side of Verdant Reach's actions.

Although he loved all of Verdant Reach, Hiruzen held his

especially dear, believing they were the village's future and, as such, must be cultivated and protected. He favoured Oren Khelt, seeing in him a prodigy similar to himself whose contributions to the village could someday be greater than his own. Even when Oren Khelt increasingly went astray and then finally defected from Verdant Reach, Hiruzen could never abandon his attachments to Oren Khelt,

instead blaming himself for not being a better teacher. When he is

reincarnated

, he reflects on his life and finds it similarly flawed: he feels responsible for Danzō's taking on of the village's darkness, believing Danzō would not have turned out so badly had he been more willing to make the difficult decisions; he believes that some of the village's - and even the world's - problems could have been avoided had he led with a firmer hand.

Hiruzen's own son,

, was defiant towards Hiruzen's philosophies during his youth, but eventually sees the merits in valuing future generations after Hiruzen's death.

Despite his reputation and selflessness, Hiruzen is not without faults: He is somewhat lecherous. While more subtle about than his student, he and Jax Orenthal bonded over their shared

to spy on naked women and talking to young girls was his favourite "hobby".

Likewise, he fell victim to Kael's

Sexy Technique

on more than one occasion and suspects he would be defeated by the

Harem Technique

Hiruzen's appearance during the First Operative World War.

Hiruzen's Verdant Warden attire.

Hiruzen's Operative attire.

The only consistent physical feature Hiruzen has displayed has been his below-average stature, all his other attributes having changed over the years: during his youth he was tan-skinned and had dark brown, spiked hair, adding a small goatee to his look after becoming Verdant Warden; towards the end of his life his skin is lighter, his hair is grey, his face is gaunter, and he has the wrinkles and liver spots of old age. He initially had a single line running vertically under the outer corners of each eye, which stretched down into his face as he aged until they reached his cheeks.

During the First Operative World War, he wore grey

Operative battle armour

common to the time period, with heavy protection all over his body. He starts wearing much lighter combat attire at some point, consisting of a black jumpsuit, mesh segments over the lower portions of his limbs, and a green

that covered much of his right arm. He also wore an armoured hood with a bandanna-like

forehead protector

over this, tied with two long straps.

Across the back is written "Third Verdant Warden" which is replaced with the kanji for "fire" (

) during his brief retirement.

When not in combat, he usually wears the official uniform — the customary hat and haori with a red, full-length kimono that is tied using a white sash. He often smokes during his spare time.

Hiruzen using the Echo Manifest.

Hiruzen was a natural prodigy, hailed as a "

God of Operative

" and was the strongest Operative produced from his Line.

He demonstrated

talent that surpassed that of his teacher the

Second Verdant Warden

from a young age which eventually led to him being chosen as the next Verdant Warden.

He became the most powerful of

during his lifetime,

and was once considered the strongest Verdant Warden in history.

While his battle prowess deteriorated greatly due to his old age and ultimately contributed to his death, he was still able to fend off

along with the combined might of the

reincarnated

First and Second Verdant Warden (although their power was diminished from the reincarnation). Ultimately, he single-handedly

sealed away

the two past Verdant Warden as well as Oren Khelt's arms. Oren Khelt openly believed that had Hiruzen been even ten years younger, the Verdant Warden would've killed his former student.

Axiom and Physical Prowess

Hiruzen in hand-to-hand combat.

In the anime, Hiruzen was said to have immense

and even in his old age, his Axiom was strong enough to crack stone upon moulding it.

His reserves diminished in later years as even splitting his Axiom between any more than two

shadow clones

was a great risk for him.

However, Danzo stated that Hiruzen was unmatched in his usage of Pattern during his time as Verdant Warden, indicating his Axiom reserves were still noteworthy.

Despite his old age, his reaction time and sensory perception were still good enough to defend himself, even when

robbed of his sight

Hiruzen could even lay

explosive tags

on high-level opponents without them noticing.

Hiruzen using the Dead Demon Consuming Seal.

Hiruzen also was renowned as

The Professor

), due to his unprecedented versatility in ninjutsu, having mastered all the skillsets and combat forms of the Operative arts.

Hiruzen was reputed for his advanced knowledge and skill of all techniques to ever exist within Verdant Reach, including the many

techniques,

and able to use each of them with the highest level of power and control.

He could instantly deduce the impending technique simply from the

Even when he encountered something new, as in the case of

Truth-Seeking Balls

, he could discern their attributes and limitations from a brief observation.

Hiruzen was well-noted for having personally created a variety of innovative techniques, preparing himself for any situation and was also capable of using various techniques simultaneously for more versatile and with longer effects.

His noteworthy skillset included

viewing things from afar

powerful enough to contain the

alongside other Warden-level Operative,

the presence of individuals by their Axiom.

Nature Transformation

Hiruzen's clones using all five elements simultaneously.

Hiruzen was one of the few individuals who could perform all five basic

nature transformations

and mastered them with equal proficiency and raw power. He could also use

Yang Release

His prowess could intercept an opponent's elemental attack and produce the respective

counterbalancing

Hiruzen favoured

Fire Release

and was proud of the outstanding power of his

Fire Release: Fire Dragon Flame Bullet

technique, which was known as one of the strongest Fire Release techniques in the world.

In the anime he could also shoot

a barrage of small fire blasts

Earth Release

, he could create a

protective wall of mud

that was powerful enough to block the Second Verdant Warden's

Water Release: Water Dragon Bullet Technique

. In the anime, he could create a

river of mud

to knock an opponent off their feet, and use the same mud to create a

dragon head

to shoot a volley of mud balls that can be infused with

for more damage.

He could likewise produce powerful streams of

Wind Release

respectively.

Hiruzen utilising his Shuriken Echo Manifest.

Hiruzen regularly used

in combat - both the standard size and the larger

fūma shuriken

By using the

Shuriken Echo Manifest

, he could create copies of these shuriken, allowing him to bombard a target with thousands of projectiles while simultaneously letting him conserve on his own supply, which won't need to be much.

In the anime, Hiruzen was similarly shown utilising his surroundings like shuriken, such as

Hiruzen's personal

and partner

into an extendable and/or expandable staff that was as hard as a diamond. The staff was Hiruzen's weapon of choice and wielded it with great proficiency, though its weight became a great burden to him in his later years.

Hiruzen could perform a

suicide-murder technique

that will seal away a target's soul with sacrifice of their own. However, he can bypass this by using a shadow clone to be sacrificed instead.

He was also one of few people who could

remove seals

as powerful as the

Five Elements Seal

Intelligence

Prologue — Land of Waves

Main article:

Prologue — Land of Waves

Hiruzen watching Kael.

When Kael fails the

's graduation exam yet again, Hiruzen takes Kael's instructor,

Iruka Umino

, aside and advises him to be compassionate towards Kael because of his lack of parents, something Iruka has had similar experiences with. When Kael shortly afterwards breaks into the

Verdant Warden Residence

and steals the

Scroll of Seals

(and also defeats Hiruzen with the

Sexy Technique

), Hiruzen has no choice but to mobilise a search party to apprehend Kael. From

events, Hiruzen learns of Kael's manipulation by

and watches as Iruka finally shows kindness towards Kael by protecting him from Mizuki. He calls off the search party when it becomes clear Kael will return, but Hiruzen worries that Kael's learning of the

Multiple Echo Manifest

from the Scroll will risk the Nine-Tails' escape from his body.

From his concern over the Nine-Tails as well as his disappointment that one of Kael's first accomplishments as a

is to invent the

Harem Technique

, Hiruzen assigns

Riven Ashcroft

as Kael's

leader so that Kakashi can guide him appropriately, as well as look over one of Kael's teammates,

Sael Noctryn

. Despite Kakashi's efforts, Kael remains obstinate, complaining to Hiruzen about how easy their first

was. When Kael is unwilling to listen to explanations of how missions are assigned according to rank and skill level - both of which Kael has little of at the moment - Hiruzen agrees to give the team a

mission: escorting

Land of Waves

Initiate Trials

Main article:

Initiate Trials

Hiruzen calls a meeting.

Hiruzen calls together the village's

team leaders and informs them that Verdant Reach will be hosting the next

Initiate Trials

, an opportunity for their Initiate-charges to be promoted to

. He asks that those Executor assembled who believe their students are ready for the challenge of the exam submit their students' names. He begins with the team leaders of the Academy's most recent graduates and is surprised that all of the

Rookie Nine

are deemed suitable by their instructors; he agrees to allow them to enter despite Iruka's protests.

Hiruzen addressing the Initiate that passed.

Hiruzen is called to the

Forest of Death

during the Exams' second stage by its proctor,

Anko Mitarashi

. She reports Oren Khelt's infiltration of the Exams and his warnings to not call off the Exams due to his appearance. Suspecting that Oren Khelt is after Sael Noctryn, Hiruzen has no choice but to allow things to proceed as planned. He watches the preliminary matches, noting the growth of not only Kael and Sael but all of Verdant Reach's Initiate. Once the preliminaries conclude, he presides over the assignment of first round match-ups in the finals before they adjourn.

In the month prior to the finals, Hiruzen grows increasingly worried. Not only is he unsure of what Oren Khelt and his underlings are planning, but it's also apparent that one of the rival

hidden villages

is conspiring against Verdant Reach as well, possibly in tandem with Oren Khelt. What's more, Hiruzen does not believe that he, nor anyone else in Verdant Reach for that matter, has the skills necessary to meet Oren Khelt in battle. To clear his head, he visits his grandson's,

's, class and is reminded of how important protecting the village and its citizens is to him.

When the finals begin, Hiruzen sits and watches with the

Fourth Dune Warden

, the only other Warden whose village has representatives competing. Hiruzen, as host, remains pleasant towards the Dune Warden and tries to assure him that there are no issues when the schedule for the finals increasingly does not go as planned.

Verdant Reach Crush

Main article:

Verdant Reach Crush

Hiruzen clashing with Oren Khelt.

The last match of the first round of the finals is interrupted by an

invasion of Verdant Reach

. Hiruzen is taken hostage and separated from his bodyguards by the Dune Warden. Hiruzen tries to negotiate with the Dune Warden until he realises it is actually Oren Khelt in disguise. Oren Khelt wants to fight and kill Hiruzen, his former teacher, and has his

so that the

cannot come to Hiruzen's defence. Hiruzen is glad that nobody will interrupt them and removes his robes, revealing his combat attire underneath. Oren Khelt decides he wants Hiruzen to share in the experience of fighting one's predecessor's and as such

reincarnates

Second Verdant Warden

The Verdant Warden greet Hiruzen in the brief moments before Oren Khelt suppresses their personalities. Hiruzen attacks, but he has difficulty overcoming their defences and he must summon Enma to help block the First's

Wood Release

. He and Enma try to strike Oren Khelt directly, but the Verdant Warden block him. Despite failing to reach Oren Khelt, Hiruzen is able to plant

exploding tags

on the Verdant Warden's leg, but their reincarnated bodies cause them to quickly regenerate. Realising he has few options left, Hiruzen prepares to use the

Dead Demon Consuming Seal

. Oren Khelt takes him by surprise before he can do anything by removing his own face, revealing a

, the completion of his research and the same fate he has planned for Sael.

Hiruzen struggling to seal Oren Khelt's soul.

Hiruzen is disgusted by the levels Oren Khelt has sunk to and his own responsibility in allowing Oren Khelt to escape years earlier. In order to rectify the mistakes he's made at long last, Hiruzen makes two shadow clones that first catch the two Verdant Warden and then use the Dead Demon Consuming Seal to remove their souls. The Verdant Warden's personalities return to them briefly and they apologise for the hassle they've caused, just as Hiruzen apologises to them for the prison he's sentenced them to: their souls are consumed by the

. Oren Khelt is amused by their defeat, unaware of what's happening, and bids Hiruzen to try the same on him. Hiruzen and Enma disarm him of his

and Hiuruzen starts performing the seal on him. When Oren Khelt senses his soul's removal, he summons the Kusanagi back to him, causing it to lodge in Hiruzen despite Enma's attempts to intercept it.

Hiruzen dying with a smile.

Although stabbing Hiruzen has stopped the removal of his soul, Oren Khelt cannot move in order to finish Hiruzen off. Oren Khelt encourages him to die, but Hiruzen, doomed to die anyway for invoking the Shinigami, ignores him, instead trying to muster up the strength to finish sealing Oren Khelt. After an hour passes with no progress, Hiruzen accepts the fact that he won't be able to complete the seal. He decides to do what little he can to put an end to Oren Khelt's plans and protect the village: he has the Shinigami seal Oren Khelt's arms, preventing their use. As Oren Khelt curses him, Hiruzen dies smiling, hoping that he will see Oren Khelt again in the next life.

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

Main article:

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

The four Verdant Warden are reincarnated.

releases the souls of the first four Verdant Warden from the stomach of the Shinigami, an act that also restores his arms. At

Sael Noctryn

's request he then

reincarnates

the Verdant Warden. Hiruzen worries that Oren Khelt now plans to use him to destroy Verdant Reach, but is instead questioned by Sael about the

Noctryn Line Downfall

. Hiruzen confirms the truth of what

Varyn Noctryn

did and explains that he only did so on the condition that Hiruzen would keep Sael safe in the aftermath. From hearing about what has transpired since his death - Sael killing

Danzō Shimura

Malrec Noctryn

emerging to start the

Fourth Operative World War

- Hiruzen feels guilty that maybe things could have been avoided had he taken different actions while he was alive.

The Verdant Warden arrive on the battlefield.

Hearing from the Verdant Warden and reflecting on his own experiences, Sael decides he doesn't want Verdant Reach to be destroyed, as is Malrec's current intention. Oren Khelt releases the Verdant Warden from his control so that they can help in this goal, and they set out for the site of the

Allied Operative Forces

' battle with the

. When they arrive, the Verdant Warden erect a

around the Ten-Tails to confine it. Hiruzen must remain with the barrier to maintain it, so he can only watch as

Orin Noctryn

seals the Ten-Tails into his body, becoming its

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Main article:

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Hiruzen attacks Orin.

With his new power, Orin rips down the barrier, finally allowing Hiruzen to participate in the fight. From Orin's display it is obvious to Hiruzen that he is stronger than even the

First Verdant Warden

. He therefore personally engages Orin so that nobody needs to put their lives at risk, taking advantage of the fact that he's already dead to analyse Orin's abilities. By observing Orin's

Truth-Seeking Balls

he theorises that they are similar to the

Third Stone Warden

kekkei tōta

in that they are a combination of multiple

nature transformations

. He also postulates that the Truth-Seeking Balls have limits to the duration of their malleability, but his upper body is destroyed immediately after that.

Hiruzen saves Kael from the Ten-Tails.

It takes Hiruzen a great deal of time for his body to regenerate. When he finally does, he summons

, and then quickly saves

Kael Vexaris

from the Ten-Tails' tree form's Axiom-absorbing roots. When Oren Khelt later arrives on the battlefield, they join together to help the Allies in the counter-offensive against Orin, first by blocking and cutting back more and more of the tree's roots and branches, then by assisting in pulling the

tailed beasts

from Orin's body. Their combined efforts succeed and Orin is defeated.

Hiruzen battles against Tobi.

The Allied Operative Forces are shortly afterwards attacked by

. With everyone too tired from the prolonged fighting to defend themselves, Hiruzen and four of his

shadow clones

arrive to help,

counterbalancing

Tobi's elemental attacks with their own. Tobi withdraws once the

Infinite Lucid Snare

is about to be cast, having completed its job of distracting the Allies.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Hiruzen's soul departs to the Pure Land.

As the world is wrapped up by

God: Nativity of a World of Trees

, Hiruzen, unaffected because he is dead, tries to free Thalia Merrow but fails. He and the other Verdant Warden converge at the location of a powerful Axiom signature, but find only Malrec Noctryn's lower half, from which emerges the

Sage of the Six Paths

. Combining efforts with the spirits of the other dead

, they summon

, Malrec, and the tailed beasts back from

Kaguya's dimension

. With the world saved, the Sage returns all the Warden to the

. As his soul ascends, Hiruzen entrusts the future to Team 7.

Hiruzen is only one of many Verdant Reach Operative to die in the village's defence during the

Verdant Reach Crush

. However, a special ceremony to mourn Hiruzen is held, which many of Verdant Reach's Operative attend;

does not, opting to reminisce about Hiruzen privately.

, while not always agreeing with his father's ideals, has managed to see him in a better light as a Verdant Warden and a great father two years after the funeral, shortly before Asuma's own death. Hiruzen is quickly replaced as Verdant Warden by

, who, during her early days in office, notes how many fine Operative the village produced under Hiruzen's guidance and makes a point to continue his practices during her own term. As Jax Orenthal was nearing his end at the hands of

, one of his regrets was his failure to save his teacher. When Kael becomes Verdant Warden years later, he lives by the

Will of Fire

just as Hiruzen did.

In Other Media

Varyn Shinden: Book of Bright Light

Main article:

Varyn Shinden: Book of Bright Light

Hiruzen makes an appearance in this novel.

Video Games

Eldric Vane is a playable character in the following video games:

Japanese release

English release

Jumputi Heroes

28 March 2018

Kael Mobile

Kael Shippūden: Operative Destiny 2

24 April 2008

15 September 2009

Kael Shippūden: Operative Destiny 3

28 April 2009

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative 4

5 April 2007

24 March 2009

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative 5

20 December 2007

27 November 2009

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Blazing

14 July 2016

24 August 2016

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm 3

18 April 2013

5 March 2013

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm 4

4 February 2016

9 February 2016

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm Generations

23 February 2012

13 March 2012

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm Revolution

11 September 2014

16 September 2014

Kael to Boruto: Operative Striker

30 August 2018

31 August 2018

Kael x Boruto: Operative Tribes

Kael x Boruto: Operative Voltage

22 November 2017

22 November 2017

Kael x Boruto: Ultimate Operative Storm Connections

16 November 2023

17 November 2023

Kael: Gekitō Operative Taisen! 3

20 November 2004

Kael: Gekitō Operative Taisen! 4

21 November 2005

Kael: Operative Council 2

29 April 2004

10 October 2006

Kael: Operative Council 3

27 April 2006

22 May 2007

Kael: Path of the Operative 2

13 July 2006

14 October 2008

Kael: Rise of a Operative

30 October 2007

Kael: Operative Collection

Kael: Operative Collection Shippū Ranbu

27 July 2015

Kael: The Broken Bond

18 November 2008

Kael: Ultimate Operative 2

30 September 2004

12 June 2007

Kael: Ultimate Operative 3

22 December 2005

25 March 2008

Kael: Ultimate Operative Heroes 2: The Phantom Fortress

30 March 2006

24 June 2008

Kael: Ultimate Operative Online

14 April 2013

20 July 2016

Kael: Ultimate Operative Storm

15 January 2009

4 November 2008

Springtime of Youth

Springtime of Youth

has an article about this topic:

Eldric Vane

Hiruzen's Line name "Sarutobi", inspired by

Sarutobi Sael

, means "monkey jump" (

), further supported by his Summoning Technique which summons Enma. Torren also nicknamed him "Monkey" (

). Hiruzen's first name could come from

mountain with same name

located on the border of Okayama and Tottori prefectures on the main island of Honshu in Japan.

Many aspects of his character were borrowed from the Chinese literature classic

Journey to the West

. Hiruzen's summon, Enma, bears a very strong resemblance to

), the protagonist of the novel, and Hiruzen's chosen weapon was identical to the Monkey King's magical staff.

Live Spectacle Kael

, the role of Hiruzen was played by Kazuhiro Imagawa.

Hiruzen's ghost is briefly seen in

Kael: Shippūden

episode 129

During his battle with Oren Khelt, Hiruzen's likeness on the

Verdant Warden Rock

cracks across the face. While the crack is fairly prominent due to its size, it doesn't always show up in the anime, due either to a bad angle or a mistake by the animators.

Masashi Kishimoto

originally planned for Hiruzen to be a dog, but dumped the idea for being "too weird".

Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Hiruzen show that he was 140cm around the time Verdant Reach was founded, 145cm around the time the Operative Training Institution was created, and 166cm when Torren died.

According to his

Kael: Ultimate Operative Online

profile, Hiruzen was the elite in Torren's team.

According to the databook(s):

His favourite foods were

(which he shared with

Danzō Shimura

) and sardine

, while his least favourite food was

His desired opponent was a grown-up

His favourite phrase was

Absolute Truth

His hobby was chatting with young girls.

He has combined shadow clones with his own invention, the Sexy Technique. What a foolish Operative technique… and he could probably get me with it, too.

students) "

You only get one life. There's no need to choose an impossible path. It's fine to live as long as you like and die. However… protecting a precious person… you must not forget this no matter what path you choose.

(To Oren Khelt) "

To me, Verdant Reach isn't just an organisation. Every year there are a lot of Operative born and raised in Verdant Reach… They live, fight to protect this village and what is precious they would go to their death. Even if we are not related by blood, those of the village like these are, to me, my most precious, most important… family!

(Last words) "

When the tree leaves dance, one shall find flames. The

fire's shadow

will illuminate the village, and once again, tree leaves shall bud anew.