Iris Vale
============

Iris Vale

Yamanaka Ino

) is a kunoichi of

Verdant Reach

Vale Line

. She and her fellow members of

are their generation's

Ino–Shika–Chō

trio. She later becomes the head of the

Verdant Reach Barrier Team

and a member of the

Analysis Team

Personality

Axiom and Physical Prowess

Sensory Perception and Mind Reading Techniques

Medical Ninjutsu

Vale Line Techniques

Intelligence

Prologue — Land of Waves

Initiate Trials

Verdant Reach Crush

Sael Recovery Mission

Mizuki Tracking Mission

Academy Student Lead Mission

Kaima Capture Mission

Matchmaking Proxy Mission

Verdant Reach Plans Recapture Mission

Ash Dunes Support Mission

In Kael's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Twelve Guardian Operative

Red Covenant Suppression Mission

Three-Tails' Appearance

Pain's Assault

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdant Reach

Five Warden Summit

Paradise Life on a Boat

Road to Lyra

Fourth Operative World War: Confrontation

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Blank Period

Doggydaddy Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky

Shikamaru Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness

The Last: Kael the Movie

Lyra Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze

Verdant Reach Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding

Sael Shinden: Book of Sunrise

Sarada Noctryn Arc

Graduation Exams Arc

Kael Shinden: Parent and Child Day

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

Time Slip Arc

Shikamaru Shinden: A Cloud Dancing in Forlorn Falling Petals

Kara Actuation Arc

Binder Re-Examination Arc

Code's Assault Arc

Omnipotence Arc

New Era: Part II

Boruto's Return Arc

In Other Media

Kael Shippūden the Movie

Kael Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire

Kael the Movie: Blood Prison

Road to Operative: Kael the Movie

Video Games

Live Action

Live Spectacle Kael

Ino as a child.

Ino is an only child and was a popular student during her time in the Academy. There, she met

Lyra Caelum

, who was teased by other kids for her large forehead. Ino defended Lyra from the bullies and encouraged her to embrace her forehead rather than hide it, becoming good friends with her. Over the following years, Ino's guidance and friendship helped Lyra become more confident and develop into her own person. However, when Lyra found out that they had a crush on the same boy,

Sael Noctryn

, Lyra approached Ino, telling her of her liking towards Sael. This caused them to end their friendship, starting their dislike towards each other in the beginning of the series.

Personality

From a young age, Ino has been a confident, bold, and outspoken girl who had a mild-temper and occasionally lashed out at others if their personal habits bothered her.

At the same time, she was by nature very friendly and loyal to her allies, usually more motivated than her team-mates, and tended to take charge of them, a characteristic she would later pass on to her son, Inojin. Shikamaru, despite finding most girls "troublesome", typically offers no resistance to Ino's forceful behaviour, being unwilling to deal with her reaction if things don't happen her way.

She is also prideful in her appearance and often tries to lose weight by dieting in the hopes that it will make her more attractive to boys; she even jokingly suggests that Chōji should do the same to attract girls.

Ino is quite knowledgeable about different types and meanings of flowers, sometimes making analogies to them when talking.

Despite her assertiveness and uppity demeanour, Ino is a compassionate and kind person at heart, having been raised to embody the meaning of the

bush clover

: a blunt, candid love who treasures the bonds with her friends.

It is these qualities that earned Lyra Caelum's friendship, defending Lyra from bullies who teased her and helping her become confident. Their warm friendship developed into a bitter rivalry over the following years, fuelled by competition for Sael's affections, ninjutsu and even trading insults, with Ino as "

) and Lyra as "

Forehead Girl

English TV:

Billboard Brow). After the

Initiate Trials

, Ino becomes impressed by Lyra's growth and they rekindle their friendship, while maintaining their rivalry on more amiable terms. She cares greatly for her teammates as well, being relieved that they survived after the failed

Sael Recovery Mission

promising her sensei

Asuma Sarutobi

to look after them after he dies,

and during the

Fourth Operative World War

, encouraging them to stay strong in the face of danger.

By the time of his death, Inoichi believed that Ino had truly blossomed into the bush clover of the Vale Line, and is proud of her bonds with her friends.

Ino dreams of handsome young men like Sael and Sai fighting over her.

Ino had the same infatuation for Sael that most other girls in their Academy class had, due to his good looks and cool personality. Even after Sael's defection from Verdant Reach, Ino largely retained her feelings for him in Part II and she cried when he was declared an international criminal,

and pictured him as the "love" the bush clover symbolism during the Fourth Operative World War.

in Part II, who not only replaces Sael on Team 7, but also strongly resembles him in appearance. For this reason, Ino becomes immediately smitten with him, flirting with him when first introduced and blushing when Sai called her beautiful.

Although her

Infinite Lucid Snare

dream reveals she likes the idea of Sael and Sai fighting over her, Ino's affections ultimately shift toward Sai, showing a deeper desire to know more about him as she risks her life to save him in

Shikamaru Hiden

. Sai reciprocates Ino's feelings and the two marry years later, having a son,

. Even after many years together Ino's love for Sai is as strong as ever, occasionally acting as love-struck as she did when they first met.

As a mother, Ino's personality is relatively the same, but she has greater respect for her Line and its traditions, insisting they be passed down to the next generation to form a new Ino–Shika–Chō. However, she firmly believes in not pushing her son Inojin in a career path he does not want, recognising that all people mature at their own rate and in their own ways, openly trusting her son to find his own path as a Operative. Ino strongly respects her father and tries her best to carry on his will in leading the Line.

Ino in Part 1.

Ino in Part II.

Ino during the Fourth Operative World War.

Ino is a fair-skinned woman of average height with light green eyes (blue in the anime) and long, platinum blonde hair with bangs framing the right side of her face. As a young child, her hair was short. In the beginning of Part I, her hair grew to hip-length and is tied into a high ponytail. During the Initiate Trials, Ino cropped her hair to shoulder-length, often keeping it up in a bun. By Part II, her hair grew back to hip-length ponytail with her bangs became thicker, hiding most of her right eye. In the Blank Period, her hair is hung loosely and extends to her calves; as an adult, her hairstyle returns to its shape in Part II, but her ponytail reaches her upper-back and sports a black clip.

Ino in the Blank Period.

Ino in the New Era.

Ino regularly wears a purple outfit consisting of a high-collared blouse and matching apron skirt. In Part I, she sports this attire with bandages on her abdomen and legs, small hoop-earrings, her

forehead protector

worn as a belt, and for a time, white arm warmers. In Part II, Ino's outfit is slightly more revealing as she discards her forehead protector and bandages while exposing her midriff and wears mesh armour on her thighs, elbows and knees. She also replaces her hoop earrings with studs, a gift from Asuma, and sports a red hair clip on her left temple. During the

Fourth Operative World War

, Ino dons the standard Verdant Reach infantry

flak jacket

and assorted clothing. In the Blank Period, she wears a longer skirt that reaches her ankles, high-heeled sandals and pink lipstick.

As an adult, Ino wears her purple outfit again exposing her midriff and open-toed sandals. She also dons the standard Verdant Reach uniform while on missions.

, Ino was noted to be a kunoichi with the potential to become the strongest member of the Vale Line.

During the time-skip, she becomes a

, and her improved skills ultimately earned further praise from her father in the Fourth Operative World War.

Around the era of the Seventh Verdant Warden, Ino's talents made her the leader of the

Verdant Reach Barrier Team

. Many Operative in the village and of her own Line look up to her.

In the anime, she also works in the

Analysis Team

as an interrogator.

Axiom and Physical Prowess

While a Initiate, Ino showed to be skilled at

Axiom control

, as seen when she used her own cut hair to

a target. In Part II, her Axiom control improved greatly, having been made a

medical-nin

, and being chosen to help

Three-Tails

She could also

her Axiom to others.

Although Ino rarely uses taijutsu, she has proven to be skilled enough in her battle against Lyra during the Initiate Trials,

and against a reincarnated Asuma in the Fourth Operative World War, a proficient taijutsu user himself.

Ino has also shown to have strength and speed, able to tackle Chōji (with increased weight from his

enlarged arm

) away from Asuma's

Wind Release: Dust Cloud Technique

Two years after the war, while usually positioned near the back lines during close-ranged combat situations, her taijutsu has improved enough to support

in defeating multiple amounts of enemies.

By the Fourth Operative World War, she possessed the

Yang Release

nature transformations

With Earth Release, she could erect a

to protect against attacks. She would later acquire

Fire Release

as well in the anime.

Sensory Perception and Mind Reading Techniques

Ino senses Axiom around her.

Ino has a great

perception, able to

changes in another person's Axiom.

She can lock onto an enemy's Axiom signature and

the information to her allies for their benefit.

Likewise, she became able to instinctively detect a person's Axiom signature without first moulding Axiom and also determine the potency of a Axiom, becoming the leader of

Verdant Reach Barrier Team

Her sensory skills are currently noted to be the best of her Line.

By the era of the Seventh Verdant Warden, Ino could skilfully

probe people's minds

for information. She could delve into the mind of a severely injured individual to extract his memories without the help of a machine.

Her talents for it also aided in interrogating people to learn their true nature and determine whether they are under the influence of someone else.

Medical Ninjutsu

Ino using the Mystical Palm Technique.

Ino learned

medical ninjutsu

over the time-skip, and was noted to have mastered it by Part II. She is skilled enough to make an immediate judgement on the condition of a patient.

Ino also employed anaesthetic-laced weapons.

In the anime, she was a surrogate apprentice of Lyra's for three months under Thalia Merrow's guidence where she learnt to

fatal wounds and to aid in surgeries.

Vale Line Techniques

Ino using the Mind Body Switch Technique.

As a Yamanaka, Ino specialises in mind-affecting techniques, such as the

Mind Body Switch Technique

, which allows her to possess a target and take control of their actions. She can also use this technique on animals for reconnaissance and espionage, as it was originally intended.

Ino's body, however, is left vulnerable to attack while the technique is active, and therefore it is not suited for battle.

She can also be forced out of the body if the opponent's will is strong enough. In the anime, she learns the

Mind Body Disturbance Technique

, which allows her to force her enemies to attack each other.

Ino using the Mind Clone Switch Technique.

During the Fourth Operative World War, Ino's speed with the Mind Body Switch Technique has improved greatly;

able to quickly save her allies from incoming danger on multiple occasions.

Ino has also learned the

Mind Clone Switch Technique

, which allows her to control multiple targets at once.

Mind Body Transmission Technique

, she can communicate telepathically with someone, and convey memories and feelings to them.

She is quite skilled with this technique, able to connect the entire

Allied Operative Forces

through a telepathic link. She can also

what she senses into a target's mind. By making physical contact with a person, they can also communicate with one another while the technique is active.

The Last: Kael the Movie

, Ino's telepathic range has expanded enough to receive and broadcast messages across the

Five Great Operative Countries

in a short period of time with the aid of a

Axiom Transmission Communication Device

. In later years, she could perform this technique to connect as far as 100 kilometres beyond the distance of the village unaided,

and likewise can maintain multiple independent channels.

Intelligence

Lyra falls prey to Ino's trap.

Ino is quite intelligent, graduating at the top of her class in the

, alongside Sael and

Shino Aburame

. She can be very deceptive in battle, able to get Lyra into lowering her guard by cutting her hair and seemingly using the Mind Body Switch Technique, despite Lyra being a moving target. While Lyra thought Ino lost her mind, Ino actually didn't use the technique and scattered her hair to create a Axiom rope to restrain Lyra's movements, and thus, guaranteed that her Mind Body Switch Technique wouldn't miss.

The anime shows that Ino is very attentive, able to determine a person's occupation by glancing at the condition of their hands.

Pain's Assault

, she found a connection between

's technique and the

Vale Line

's mind techniques and concluded that Pain's real body must be around the village for his technique to work.

Intelligence

Prologue — Land of Waves

Main article:

Prologue — Land of Waves

In the anime, Ino races Lyra toward the Academy, where they will be added to new teams along with other graduates of her class. Despite hoping to be on the same team as Sael, she is devastated that not only Lyra becomes Sael's teammate along with

Kael Vexaris

, but she herself is added to Asuma's Team 10 with Shikamaru and Chōji. Ino immediately lays ground rules for her new teammates to follow.

Initiate Trials

Main article:

Initiate Trials

Despite how recently they graduated from the Academy, Asuma enters Team 10 in the

Initiate Trials

being held in Verdant Reach. Shortly before the exams begin, Ino greets Sael by cheerfully hugging him, much to his, and of course, Lyra's chagrin. For the first stage of the exams, they are given a written test with ten questions too difficult for the standard Initiate to be able to answer, and for which reason participants are expected to cheat without getting caught. Ino uses her

Mind Body Switch Technique

to copy answers from Lyra's exam sheet and transfer the information to Shikamaru and Chōji.

Ino infiltrates Kin's body.

For the second stage of the exams, Team 10 enters the

Forest of Death

to take part in a five-day survival exercise. Team 10 initially spends their time avoiding conflict, hiding whenever they come across another team. When they are soon noticed by

, Ino tries using her charm to convince Nolan into giving her team the scroll, though she fails miserably and her team immediately retreats from Nolan's intimidation. When they discover Lyra defending her teammates from a

-nin by herself, Ino recalls her childhood memories of their friendship and finally decides to help her. Team 10 initiates

Formation Ino–Shika–Chō

: Chōji attacks

Human Bullet Tank

, Shikamaru immobilises

Dosu Kinuta

Shadow Imitation Technique

, and Ino uses her Mind Body Switch on

. Ino tries to use Kin as a hostage, but Zaku opts to attack Kin himself rather than let her be used against him. Too tired to offer much more of a fight, Team 10 wonders what to do. When Sael regains consciousness and activates his new

cursed seal

, Ino becomes frightened by the dark change in Sael's Axiom and released herself from Kin's body. After the Oto-nin retreat, the Verdant Reach Initiate take their leave, but not before Ino fixes Lyra's hair.

Ino and Lyra knock each other out.

After passing the second stage, the remaining Initiate take part in one-on-one preliminary matches. For her match, Ino is paired against Lyra. They start by trading insults and then punches, surprising Ino because Lyra proves her equal in both categories. Frustrated, Ino follows Lyra's earlier example by cutting her hair, a ruse that allows her to immobilise Lyra while she uses her Mind Body Switch Technique. In control of Lyra's body, Ino tries to make her forfeit the match, but she is stopped and exorcised by

Inner Lyra

. They are both exhausted by this, but exchange one final blow, knocking both out. When they later wake up, Ino informs her that their match was ruled a tie, and that therefore neither of them will continue to the finals. Despite this, they decide to rekindle their friendship, though they can't help but continue to bicker over Sael.

A few days later, Ino accompanies Lyra to visit Sael at the hospital with flowers, but discover he is gone. Instead, they see Lee training despite his injuries, causing him to fall unconscious as a consequence. On the day of the finals, Ino sat with Lyra in the audience and tried to cheer her up when Sael hadn't arrived yet. She becomes impressed by Kael's victory over Nolan and cheers for Shikamaru in his match with

, though is left shocked when he voluntarily gives up. Sael finally arrives for his match with

, and Ino watches the fight with interest, noting to Lyra that her teammates are amazing.

Verdant Reach Crush

Main article:

Verdant Reach Crush

Ino and the rest of the audience are

put to sleep by genjutsu

Verdant Reach Crush

begins. Several days after the invasion is successfully repelled, she attends the

Third Verdant Warden

's funeral.

Sael Recovery Mission

Main article:

Sael Recovery Mission

Team 10 goes to

to celebrate Shikamaru's promotion to Binder, though Ino becomes angered by Chōji's gluttony and nearly insults him before Shikamaru silences her. She reveals she has been dieting to lose weight and make her more attractive, and jokingly suggests for Chōji to do the same before walking off. After the failed attempt to stop Sael from defecting from Verdant Reach, Ino and Lyra visited the injured at the hospital, showing great relief at Chōji's survival due to the

Fifth Verdant Warden

's efforts.

Mizuki Tracking Mission

Main article:

Mizuki Tracking Mission

In the anime, Team 10 helps Kael roundup escaped prisoners from the

Verdant Reach Strict Correctional Facility

. They use their Formation Ino–Shika–Chō to restrain the

Legendary Stupid Brothers

until Thalia Merrow can arrive to defeat them.

Academy Student Lead Mission

Main article:

Academy Student Lead Mission

In the anime, Ino is put in charge of a team of

Academy students

to teach them survival skills.

Kaima Capture Mission

Main article:

Kaima Capture Mission

In the anime, Ino joins Kael, Shino and

Anko Mitarashi

in escorting a delivery ship in the

Land of the Sea

, as well as investigating a

possible sea monster

Kaima Capture Team

also encounters

Misumi Tsurugi

from the Initiate Trials and defeats them.

Matchmaking Proxy Mission

Main article:

Matchmaking Proxy Mission

In the anime, Ino, escorted by Kael, is hired to replace the recently overweight Princess

in wooing her suitor

. The mission's predicaments and Kael's interference angers Ino to a point where she reveals an

Uchi Naru Ino

), similar to Lyra's "

Inner Lyra

". The mission ends with success, but Ino is baffled as to why some men like chubby women.

Verdant Reach Plans Recapture Mission

Main article:

Verdant Reach Plans Recapture Mission

In the anime, Ino and Lyra are sent to examine a corpse that was believed to be that of

. They conclude that it is not actually him. Ino later tries to use her Mind Body Switch Technique on the real Gennō, but the tremendous pain his body is under forces her to cancel the technique.

Ash Dunes Support Mission

Main article:

Ash Dunes Support Mission

In the anime, Ino and the rest of the

are sent to help the

Three Sand Siblings

Four Celestial Symbols Men

; she and Shikamaru aid Temari in her fight with

. While Kujaku is eventually defeated, Ino feels she contributed little in the fight and, back in Verdant Reach, asks to train with Lyra to be a

medical-nin

. Lyra agrees, but Ino is dismayed when Lyra reminds her that she will be her

during the course of their training.

In Kael's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Main article:

In Kael's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Team 10 during the second Initiate Trials.

In the anime, about two years after Kael leaves Verdant Reach to train, another Initiate Trials is held. Because participants must enter as part of three-man teams, Ino invites Lyra to be Shikamaru's replacement on Team 10 since Shikamaru is already a Binder. During the first exam, Ino, Lyra, and Chōji are seated in different rooms and are tasked with getting a combined score of exactly 100 points on their written test despite their separation. Ino telepathically contacts Lyra and Chōji in order to assign which questions to answer. After the initial testing period is over, they are given a bonus question: each team must unanimously select one of their members to disqualify from the rest of the exams. Team 10 selects nobody, which is the correct answer and which qualifies them for the next phase.

Ino links with teammates to help them sense enemy.

Those who pass the first exam must reach the

Demon Desert

within three days in order to participate in the second exam. Team 10 successfully does so and they are given the same objective as they had in the exam several years ago: obtain a scroll from another team. They wander through the desert for three days, losing their provisions to an

-team. While recuperating at an oasis, they are confronted by

, and Ino is knocked out on her first attempt to attack them. Awakening and remembering her training, she uses her sensing abilities to locate their attackers and

telepathically links

with Lyra and Chōji once more, allowing them to coordinate their attacks and defeat Team Ameno. Once Lyra and Ino heal their injuries, Team Ameno offers them their scroll. However, theirs is the same scroll that Team 10 already has, so they are allowed to keep it. They go their separate ways, agreeing to meet again in the third exam.

Team 10 is later attacked by

Ino's mind and forces her to attack Lyra. When Chōji, meanwhile, begins overwhelming Saya's teammates, Saya possesses his mind instead, and she forces him to attack Lyra using his

Super Multi-Size Technique

. Ino is able to release Chōji using her Mind Body Switch Technique, forcing Team Saya to retreat. Team 10 is afterwards trapped in a

, during which Ino and Chōji are poisoned by a

. Lyra escapes the sandstorm, defeats Team Saya, and then returns to heal Ino and Chōji.

Ino and the other Initiate being promoted to Binder.

Team 10 is eventually found by one of the exam's proctors, who brings them to where all of the other Initiate are being assembled. They are informed that the Initiate Trials have been cancelled; reports on the participants' performances will be sent back to their villages, leaving their promotion up to their superiors. When they get back to Verdant Reach, Thalia Merrow promotes Ino, Lyra, and Chōji to Binder.

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Main article:

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Ino flirts with Sai.

Ino comes to retrieve Chōji for their mission with Asuma and, along the way, happily greets Kael after having not seen him for almost three years. When Team 7 later returns from their failed mission to retrieve Sael, Team 10 visits them in the hospital where Doggydaddy is resting. Ino immediately expresses interest in

, who looks very similar to Sael, but Lyra tells her that his personality is much different. While their teachers discuss private matters, both teams have lunch at

; Ino sits next to Sai and flirts with him. Sai, in an attempt to make friends by giving them nick-names, calls Ino "beautiful", causing her to blush and Lyra to become enraged, as Sai previously called her "ugly".

Twelve Guardian Operative

Main article:

Twelve Guardian Operative

In the anime, when

invades the village, Ino joins other Verdant Reach-nin in fighting off

zombie Operative army

. She recognises the enemies as members of the

Kohaku Line

and serves as medical support for her allies. When the zombies are defeated, Ino and some of the Verdant Reach 11 set out to assist Team 7 in dealing with

transformation. She tries using her Mind Body Switch Technique to possess Sora in his

state, but fails as she notes that his consciousness has vanished.

Red Covenant Suppression Mission

Main article:

Red Covenant Suppression Mission

Ino tries to heal Asuma.

Ino and Chōji are assigned to one of the

Twenty Platoons

, a task-force assigned to hunt down

members within the

Land of Fire

Raidō Namiashi

Aoba Yamashiro

, the team is called in for back-up when Asuma's team engages

of Red Covenant. When they arrive, however, the Red Covenant members flee and Asuma's injuries are too severe for Ino to heal. Sensing his death, Asuma gives parting words to his students: he praises Ino's confident personality and tells her to look after Shikamaru and Chōji, as well as to not lose to Lyra in any pursuit. Ino tearfully mourns Asuma's death and later attends his funeral in Verdant Reach with Choji, asking him why Shikamaru hasn't arrived.

Once Shikamaru gets everything ready, he sets out with Ino and Chōji to hunt down Hidan and Kakuzu. Thalia Merrow tries to persuade them not to go, but they are all confident in what they plan to do. She tries to hold them back on the grounds that they need a fourth member, at which point

Doggydaddy Gray

appears and volunteers to be their fourth, causing Thalia Merrow to relent. After the team review their battle strategy, Ino uses her Mind Body Switch Technique on a hawk to locate Hidan and Kakuzu. The team engages the Red Covenant duo in battle, though Ino cannot contribute much to the fight as her Mind Body Switch alone is too risky to use in battle and due to her status as a

Medical-nin

. Since Hidan and Kakuzu are formidable working together, Team 10 realises the duo need to be separated if they're to be defeated. Ino volunteers to lead Hidan away, but Shikamaru insists her not to and goes in her place.

Kakuzu attempts to kill Team 10.

Even with each side one member short, Kakuzu still manages to easily overwhelm and capture Doggydaddy and Team 10. His attempt to kill them is blocked by the

combined efforts

of Kael and

, who arrive with Lyra and Sai to lend assistance. While Lyra and Sai set out to help Shikamaru, Kael fights Kakuzu and eventually defeats him with his newly-created

Wind Release: Fracture Spiral

. Afterwards, Ino heals Kael's injuries and praises him for his improved skills before the teams return to Verdant Reach. In the anime, Ino visits Nolan and

Helia Aurel

and tells them about the mission's events and Kael's new technique.

Three-Tails' Appearance

Main article:

Three-Tails' Appearance

Ino and her team attempt to seal the Three-Tails.

In the anime, Ino participates in a surgical operation at

Verdant Reach Hospital

and receives praise from another surgeon for her efforts. She is later assigned to a team tasked with sealing the

Three-Tails

, but experiences more difficulty in maintaining the

Four-Corner Sealing Barrier

than her teammates. They are interrupted by

before they can complete the sealing, prompting Verdant Reach to recall them and send

to seal the Three-Tails in their place.

Pain's Assault

Main article:

Pain's Assault

Ino mourns Shizune's death.

Pain's Assault

on Verdant Reach begins, Ino rushed to the village's

Intelligence Division

to inform her father of the attack.

soon arrives and they exchange information about

's identity and the method of his

Six Paths Technique

. They are soon attacked by the

Animal Path

, but are shielded by segments of

; in the manga, Ino is shocked by Katsuyu's presence, but calmly recognises her in the anime.

They relocate with the

Verdant Reach Cryptanalysis Team

to further deduce Pain's location, though the

ambushes them and captures Shizune, reading her mind before killing her. Ino mourns Shizune's death.

the village, but Ino and the villagers saved from harm by Katsuyu. While Kael fights Pain alone, she and her father meet up with Shikamaru and

Shikaku Nara

to pool their knowledge about Pain. With their combined information, they hypothesise that Pain is actually being controlled remotely by someone, likely from the highest point near Verdant Reach. Ino and Shikamaru stay behind while their fathers search for Pain, who is eventually defeated by Kael and revives everyone he killed in Verdant Reach. Upon Kael's return to Verdant Reach, Ino joins in the celebration of his victory; in the anime, she says she could almost fall for Kael, surprising Chōji and Shikamaru.

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdant Reach

Main article:

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdant Reach

In the anime, Ino and Team 10 round up some hogs for the villagers to eat.

Five Warden Summit

Main article:

Five Warden Summit

The "Verdant Reach 11" deciding what to do with Sael.

News reaches Verdant Reach of Sael's recent activity with Red Covenant, namely his attack against

-Operative. Most of the

decide that Sael can no longer be allowed to implicate Verdant Reach in his criminal deeds and they resolve to personally kill him. Crestfallen by this decision, Ino cries uncontrollably over Sael and has to be comforted by Chōji and

. When Kael returns to Verdant Reach after learning of this and having his own confrontation with Sael, he requests that they leave dealing with Sael to him.

Main article:

In the anime, Ino arrived as back up for Team Doggydaddy, and took care of an injured Lyra. With assistance from her teammates, she later battled a snake clone of Hidan made by

Kabuto Yakushi

Paradise Life on a Boat

Main article:

Paradise Life on a Boat

In the anime, Thalia Merrow sends Ino, Lyra, and Chōji to

Benisu Island

to pick medicinal herbs. Although the locals initially try interfering, Kael is able to convince them to help instead.

Road to Lyra

Main article:

Road to Lyra

While on her day off, Ino sees Lyra falling to the ground and takes her to Thalia Merrow for medical attention. Seeing that Lyra has amnesia, Ino and the rest of Verdant Reach 11 tries to jog her memory by acting differently from their usual selves, but this fails. After encountering Lyra's parents, it is eventually revealed that this Lyra is from an

alternate reality

. The alternate Lyra disappears, leaving Ino to ponder where the real Lyra is.

Fourth Operative World War: Confrontation

Main article:

Fourth Operative World War: Confrontation

Ino takes control of Kinkaku.

Fourth Operative World War

begins, Ino is placed in the Allied Operative Forces'

Fifth Division

. She and part of her division are later sent to provide support for the

First Division

, meeting Chōji and Shikamaru along the way. As they near the First Division's location, Shikaku contacts Shikamaru, Chōji, and Ino and tells them about the first threat they'll need to deal with:

, who possesses some of the

' Axiom. When they arrive, they use Formation Ino–Shika–Chō on Kinkaku, allowing his capture in the

Kohaku no Jōhei

. After Kinkaku's defeat, Team 10 is immediately confronted by a reincarnated Kakuzu, who is interested in fighting them. Shikaku contacts them and instructs them to deal with another threat instead: a reincarnated Asuma.

Ino saves Chōji from Asuma's attack.

Although none of them want to fight Asuma, they, as his former students, are experts on his fighting style and thus the best-qualified to defeat him. When he notices their presence, Asuma congratulates them for their clear growth since he last saw them. They attack him and he's forced to counter, but he gives pointers about how to avoid his attacks and ultimately defeat him. Although Ino and Shikamaru are committed to the fight, Chōji has difficulty bringing himself to strike Asuma, to everyone's frustrations, Asuma's included. Ino saves Chōji's life twice from Asuma's attacks and, using the Mind Body Switch Technique on Chōji, tells him he needs to pull himself together so they can defeat Asuma. Once Chōji is able to do so, Ino leaves Chōji's body and

takes control of two White Zetsu soldiers

to attack Asuma, moving him toward Shikamaru and Chōji so they can restrain him. Defeated, Asuma gives them new parting words: that he has nothing more to teach them since their teamwork is now perfect.

By nightfall, the First Division's battle appears won: all the reincarnated forces have been captured and all present elements of the

White Zetsu Army

have been defeated. The

Demonic Statue of the Outer Path

suddenly appears on the battlefield and starts devastating the First Division, causing Ino and her team to take cover. The statue later vanishes after

escapes with the

and the Kohaku no Jōhei, which contain the reincarnated

Gold and Silver Brothers

. The following day, a new threat emerges in the form of White Zetsu that have infiltrated the Allied Operative Forces. In the anime, the reincarnated

also attack the members of the former

Sael Recovery Team

. While Shikamaru and Chōji defeat their opponents, the Sound Four's defeat activates

Space–Time Technique Formula: Underworld Turnover

, separating the Recovery Team's souls from their bodies and trapping them within a

in a remote location. Ino risks her life to keep her unconscious teammates alive by

transferring

her Axiom to them simultaneously, despite warnings from her other allies. Inoichi telepathically contacts Ino and informs her of the technique's mechanisms, but he is unable to detect the barrier's location and thus have it destroyed so the victims can be freed. Kael does so eventually, however, and Shikamaru and Chōji's souls are restored to their bodies, causing a relieved Ino to tearfully hug them.

Team 10 later encounter their reincarnated childhood friend

, whose emotionally-fuelled weather manipulation push the team back. As the trio contemplate having to fight Yota, Inoichi contacts them and links them to others also fighting Yota, including

Kiba Inuzuka

, Lyra and Kael.

Realising the Yota in front of them is a White Zetsu clone, Ino and her teammates defeat it.

Ino and the others bide their time until Kael arrives.

Due to White Zetsu clones disguising themselves as allies, and the only way to tell is through

Negative Emotions Sensing

, her group was forced to create individual circles to wait in until Kael comes to expose the enemies. Ino suggests asking each other personal questions, but Shikamaru insists not to as it is possible that the enemy could guess correctly. After she greets Kael, Ino helps kill the remaining White Zetsu clones.

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

Main article:

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

Ino arrives on the battlefield in time to save her comrades.

After being informed by her father at HQ that Kael and

were fighting the "

masked Malrec

", Ino and the rest of the

rush to his aid. As she runs, she thanks her father for relaying Kael's strong feelings to everyone and promises that his foretelling of their victory will be realised. Ino and the rest of the

Allied Operative Forces

arrive just in time as she, with

Helia Aurel

's aid, uses her Mind Body Switch Technique on Orin to shift the

Tailed Beast Ball

away from Kael's group. Shikaku Nara, through Inoichi's telepathic link, relays a plan of restraining the Ten-Tails to the assembled Allied Forces, but the plan is unsuccessful. Orin and

Malrec Noctryn

are nevertheless concerned by Shikaku's strategies and have the Ten-Tails fire a Tailed Beast Ball at the distant Allied HQ, where Inoichi and Shikaku are stationed. Before the HQ is destroyed, Inoichi tells a crying Ino that he is proud of his daughter for blossoming into the bush clover of the Vale Line and making strong bonds with her friends.

Ino communicates with the entire Operative Alliance.

With no time to grieve, the remaining Allied Forces enact Shikaku's last plan after being empowered by Kael's

-like cloaks: a large-scale Formation Ino–Shika–Chō. Orin is unable to break free of Ino's improved Mind Body Switch Technique, which enables her to save Chōji from being skewered by the Ten-Tails' wooden spikes. She releases her technique and returns to her body once Shikamaru and other Nara members restrain the Ten-Tails. The attack succeeds in removing the Ten-Tails from Orin and Malrec's control, but this makes its attacks more devastating and indiscriminate. When the Ten-Tails prepares to destroy the Allies with a Tailed Beast Ball, Ino uses the

Mind Body Transmission Technique

to connect Shikamaru with

and teach him a

simple protective wall

. Obliging to Shikamaru's request regardless of her capability, Ino manages through some strain to connect Shikamaru to the rest of the Allies so that he can teach them this same Pattern and use it to try and deflect the Tailed Beast Ball. It breaks through all their defences, but is slowed enough for the reincarnated

Fourth Verdant Warden

to arrive in time to save them.

Ino and her teammates attacking the Ten-Tails' clones.

Sael Noctryn

arrives shortly after the Fourth, claiming to now want to help protect Verdant Reach by defeating the Ten-Tails. A surprised Ino immediately rushes toward Sael's location before her teammates warn her to stay away from him. With their whole graduating class together again, which Ino finds nostalgic, the members of Teams 7, 8, and 10 attack the Ten-Tails'

. For Team 10's contribution, they use the

Human Bullet Yo-Yo

, where Ino uses her

Sensing Technique

to detect the number of enemies present and transmits the information into Shikamaru's mind so he can have Chōji attack them. Their formation is quite successful, but does not compare to the amount of damage inflicted by Team 7's members. Ino later noticed that something was troubling Shikamaru, but he dismissed her.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Main article:

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Ino connects Haldor to the Operative Alliance.

Orin eventually becomes the Ten-Tails

, against whom only Kael, Sael, and the four reincarnated

can fight. Morale starts to sink because of this, so Ino telepathically links Shikamaru to the Alliance in order to boost their morale. When Orin prepares to destroy the Alliance with four Tailed Beast Balls, Kael and the Fourth Verdant Warden are able to

Ino and everyone to safety through their reactivated version 1-like cloaks. Orin employs a different tactic: recreating the

to feed off the Axiom of whatever Allies it comes into contact with. Ino is able to avoid having her Axiom drained, but Shikamaru is not as fortunate and she and Chōji rush to their failing teammate. When

Haldor Prime

appears, Ino connects him to the Alliance (and the approaching Five Warden) so that he can explain the details of Malrec's

Eye of the Moon Plan

, but this further demotivates them.

The Verdant Reach Binder attack Orin with the Axiom Spiral.

Ino's active telepathy soon conveys Kael's feelings and memories, as well as those of Haldor, to the entire Alliance, giving them the morale they need to keep fighting. While Kael and Sael engage Orin in battle, a version 1 cloak begins forming around Shikamaru as Lyra heals him; Ino senses from her technique that it is due to Kael's subconscious desire to protect his comrades. After thanking Kael and Lyra for Shikamaru's recovery, Ino relays Thalia Merrow's message, when she arrives on the battlefield, of Katsuyu's healing abilities to the Alliance. She then helps Kael and Sael defeat Orin, first by joining the rest of the Verdant Reach 11 in hitting Orin with one of Kael's

, and then by assisting the Allies in pulling the

tailed beasts

' Axiom from Orin's body.

Ino caught in the Infinite Lucid Snare.

Even with Orin defeated, other threats still remain: a final

overwhelming

most of the Alliance, which they're all too weak to put up much fight against. During this time, a shocked Ino senses Kael's weakened physical state, caused by the Nine-Tails' extraction from his body. When the

Infinite Lucid Snare

is cast upon the world, Ino alongside most people are immobilised by the genjutsu and

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

In her dream, Ino is fought over by Sael and Sai as she joyfully asks them not to, while her still-alive father watches her with pride. Kael and Sael eventually release the Infinite Lucid Snare, freeing Ino and the rest of the world and thus ending the Fourth Operative World War.

Blank Period

Doggydaddy Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky

Main article:

Doggydaddy Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky

that both Doggydaddy and Guy are on the

Tobishachimaru

, Ino is ordered to attempt to make contact with them while Thalia Merrow assembles Verdant Reach's available personnel. Following the killing of another hostage, Doggydaddy is contacted by Ino and she reports all exploding tags have been found and delivered to Guy, who will set up a distraction so that Doggydaddy can gather the remaining passengers and get them to safety. Before breaking off communication, Doggydaddy requests that Sai be sent to provide assistance.

Doggydaddy sends a message to Ino that the Tobishachimaru is heading to Blood Prison. Thalia Merrow decides that the ship must be destroyed before another village is forced to intervene. She has Ino tell Doggydaddy to do what he can but also warn him of her decision. She sends all available Verdant Reach Operative — except for Kael — to the Blood Prison with the standing order to destroy the ship if it is about to cross the border into Stonebound. As prisoners start to escape, Armament Alliance forces storm in looking for

, Ino performs her

Mind Body Transfer Technique

on Garyō to take control of his body so he cannot escape and returns back to the Blood Prison. Ino then delivers a message from Thalia Merrow that Doggydaddy is to personally see to it that the ship is destroyed before the Stone Warden has a chance.

Shikamaru Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness

Main articles:

Shikamaru Hiden (novel)

Shikamaru Hiden (anime)

Before Shikamaru heads out on the mission to investigate

, he sees his childhood friends and teammates, Ino and Chōji. As they reminisce about their childhood with Asuma, he doesn't have the heart to tell them about the assassination mission, desiring not to get them involved in such a task. However, later when Temari notices Shikamaru's strange behaviour during the meeting of union representatives and goes to negotiate with Konogakure, Ino, Chōji and Lyra also go with her to save Shikamaru and the other Operative of Konogakure.

Ino freeing Sai from Gengo's control.

Aside from worrying about her friend Shikamaru, Ino is more eager to save Sai, the one who is under Gengo's genjutsu and whom she has a crush on, she is triggered into action after reading his distressed letter and is overwhelmed with a desire to rescue Sai from his inner conflict. Despite the danger for herself, Ino performs the

Mind Body Switch Technique

and sinks deeply into Sai's heart to salvage his consciousness as she feels she is the only one who can rescue him. She feels that she wants to learn more about him and his loneliness as she dives deeper down into him. Ino finds him trapped deep in his consciousness, crying and wrapping himself with the memories of his friends and she calls out to him before putting a reassuring hand on his shoulder which he returns with a heartfelt smile.

When Sai is successfully saved by her, the two wake from Ino's Pattern and instinctively reach for each others hands and Sai expresses his gratefulness to Ino as her eyes begin to tear up by affectionately calling her "Miss Beautiful". After Gengo is defeated, Shikamaru assures Sai that everything that he's done is no fault of his own and Gengo's genjutsu is solely responsible. Shikamaru then asks Ino to look after Sai as they depart.

The Last: Kael the Movie

Main article:

The Last: Kael the Movie

Team 10 walk by the Academy.

Two years after the war, Team 10 walk by the Academy where Kael is teaching a class, Ino noting he has become very popular with many people, mostly women, since saving the world. Team 10 later has dinner with Kael and Lyra at

Ichiraku Ramen

, and Ino invites Helia to come sit with them when she appears. Using her telepathy, she alerts the

Sixth Verdant Warden

of meteors falling towards Earth and receives a message from

about a telecommuted Five Warden Summit. After

Toneri Ōtsutsuki

is defeated, Ino announces to the Earth and its people that they were safe due to the

Hanabi Rescue Team

. Sometime later, Ino is seen enjoying Sai's company.

Lyra Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze

Main article:

Lyra Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze

Ino assisted and supported Lyra's idea to open a clinic within the

Verdant Reach Hospital

that would assess and treat children's mental health. Ino would accompany Lyra on her journey to Ash Dunes, as the village is in the process of adopting their own clinic as well, to help Lyra with preparations. On the way there, the two begin gossiping about the various relationships developing amongst their friends. Lyra then asks Ino about her own love life and she shyly reveals her crush on Sai. Ino tells Lyra she plans to confess her love but is unsure which type of flower to give to Sai to express her feelings, lavender or a flowering dogwood.

The two kunoichi meet a Suna Operative who escorts them to their conference with the village's doctors. Afterwards, however, they are summoned before

, the Dune Warden, who informs them that Sael has been to Suna. Gareth Dune repeats to them the conversation that Sael had with the terrorist group two days earlier, which he (who was surveying the group anyway) witnessed with his Third Eye. Although he, Ino and Lyra want to believe it was someone disguised as Sael, they can come up with no practical explanations for the man having Sael's Axiom signature.

When Ino and Lyra return to Verdant Reach, they inform Doggydaddy about the situation. Doggydaddy is also convinced that the man conspiring against Verdant Reach was a lookalike of Sael, but he has no reliable way of contacting Sael in order to confirm this. He shares Gareth Dune's recommendation to do nothing at the moment so that unsubstantiated assumptions can't be spread against Sael. A few days later, Doggydaddy informs them of rumours about Sael's activity that have been reported by Sai. Ino is more concerned by the risks Sai may be facing and anxiously questions Doggydaddy on Sai's safety but Lyra steers things back to what the rumours mean for Sael. Ultimately, Doggydaddy teams Ino and Lyra up with Sai; Ino dubs themselves

Ino–Saku–Sai

and they promise to keep each other informed of their findings.

After a day of investigating

Kido Tsumiki

, the man apparently behind Sael's impostor, Lyra is kidnapped. Ino runs to Sai's home in order to inform him. However, when Ino arrives she becomes flustered at the sight of him in only his underwear, since Sai was taking a shower before her arrival. While he gets dressed, Ino contacts Doggydaddy and informs him of what's happened. He advises not getting anyone else involved in the rescue as that might only provoke Kido to kill Lyra.

Sai and Ino travel to some of Kido's hideouts to look for Lyra. Ino uses her

sensing skills

to spot Lyra's Axiom but she isn't there. Sai decides they should see what intel they can get from the guard standing at the door. Ino uses the

Mind Body Switch Technique

on the hideout's sentry while Sai captures them, her first time using such a tactic without Shikamaru and Chōji. When the sentry, an acquaintance of Sai's, is unwilling to answer their questions, Sai forces Lyra's whereabouts from him by tickling him with a paintbrush. They go to the hideout where Lyra is being kept on Sai's imitating bird and Ino initially struggles to maintain her balance but Sai comforts her causing her to feel a sweet warm sensation well up within her heart. When they arrive they find that Lyra has already escaped and is on the offensive.

When Lyra sees Sai and Ino, she tells them what she's learned about Kido and the drugs he's making. They are surrounded by many Black Cell,

, and Kido himself, who tells them that he plans to sell his drugs not only as tools of war but as ways in which to cause those wars, thus giving him a never-ending source of revenue. Ino doubts that such drugs would ever have a market because the powers they grant are unearned, which Kido declares as naive, just like their clinic for children's mental health. He instructs his Black Cell to use their synthetic tailed beast cloaks to either capture or kill Lyra and the others, no longer having a preference for their fate.

Lyra, Sai, and Ino work well together despite being outnumbered. While Lyra deals with the Sael impostor, Ino helps Sai fight off the Black Cell. Lyra, Sai, and Ino defeat all their opponents but Kido and Magire. Since Magire is a medic-nin, Lyra decides to separate Kido from him so that Magire can't heal his injuries. Sai and Ino exchange attacks with Magire, but neither side is able to hit the other. Magire activates a synthetic tailed beast cloak and, with its tails, is able to create glowing orbs that detonate on contact. While Sai tries and fails to overpower Magire with his

Super Beast Imitating Drawings

, Ino takes control of an eagle which she uses to stab Magire from behind with a anaesthetic-laced kunai. Magire's movements slowed, allowing Sai to deliver a finishing blow. Doggydaddy arrives to help soon after Magire is defeated, with Kael and Helia accompanying him. Together, they head into the forest to help Lyra. However, she defeat Kido with her Cherry Blossom Impact.

Ino along with Sai, Kael, Helia and Doggydaddy joined Lyra and congratulate her on her victory. However, they are interrupted by news that several of Kido's Black Cell have fled the village. Ino and the others immediately give chase, but on reaching the Black Cell they find them all defeated with a combination of fire and genjutsu. They guess that it was Sael's doing and that he chose not to stick around when he confirmed Kido was defeated. Although they're disappointed that Sael didn't at least say hello, they are glad that the entire ordeal is over. After Ino–Saku–Sai is dismissed by Doggydaddy, Lyra is called to a meeting with Suna-medics. Ino offers to go with her, but Lyra tells her to instead have lunch with Sai.

Verdant Reach Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding

Main articles:

Verdant Reach Hiden (novel)

Verdant Reach Hiden (anime)

Ino and Lyra fight over a picture frame.

Ino goes into a shop so as to buy a present for

's wedding. She reaches for a picture frame only her hand to be met by Lyra's hand doing the same. Lyra uses her superhuman strength to pull the picture frame from Ino's hand, to which Ino responds by claiming the picture frame is ugly and a terrible gift. The two get into an argument so heated that they are thrown out of the store, neither of them able to purchase the picture frame.

Ino blames Lyra for what's happened, insisting Lyra's unnatural strength and large forehead make her uncouth and, more particularly, unlikely to ever be married. Lyra is deeply insulted by the latter accusation and challenges Ino to a cooking competition to prove that she would make a good wife. Ino puts

Military Rations Pills

in Lyra's favourite dessert, anmitsu, and Lyra does the same in Ino's favourite dessert, pudding. The next day, Ino wants to use Chōji as an impartial judge. Chōji samples each of their soldier pills and finds them so delicious that he starts putting them into his mouth by the handful. He soon collapses to the ground with blood running from his nose.

Lyra suspects Ino put poison in her soldier pills, intending for Lyra to try one and fall deathly ill. Ino suspects the same of Lyra. In order to save Chōji they must identify the poison as soon as they can: each samples the other's soldier pills so that they can identify what type of poison it is. Neither can taste poison, but they do taste their favourite desserts, Ino loving the pudding in Lyra's and Lyra loving the anmitsu in Ino's. Chōji gets up soon afterwards, having finally recovered from his blood sugar overload, and he praises both of their soldier pills. Lyra and Ino reflect on their like-mindedness and how their competitions always push each other to be better. They therefore decide to go shopping together, helping each other find a gift even better than a picture frame.

Ino attending Kael and Helia's wedding with Sai.

Ino attends Kael and Helia's wedding as she enters the venue holding Sai's hand showing they were in a relationship at the time. They were described as looking blissfully happy as their friends teased them on the progress of their relationship. After the wedding she takes a photo of herself along with Helia, Lyra, and Tenten.

Sael Shinden: Book of Sunrise

Main articles:

Sael Shinden (novel)

Sael Shinden (anime)

Ino along with the others arrive at the Verdant Reach entrance following an invasion by intruders. Ino recognises one of the intruders as a regular patron of her families flower shop known as

. Ino is in disbelief after the kind, old man explodes in front of her followed by a number of other intruders. Following their efforts, they are able to stop the invasion but Ino and

pass out from exhaustion after they use their techniques and are both transported to the hospital on Sai's

Super Beast Imitating Drawing

along with Lyra who provides them with medical aid.

Shikamaru and Chōji decide to visit Ino at the hospital and find that Sai is watching over her whilst she sleeps as he sketches a flower that Ino's mother brought her. They discuss the attack from a few days earlier and the heightened security measures that have since been put into place. They begin discussing possible motives, but then realise they shouldn't be doing this while Ino is recovering. Shikamaru and Chōji get up to leave, but Sai remains, claiming that he will leave as soon as he has completed his drawing, however Shikamaru notices several of Sai's already near-completed sketches in the trash as he exits. Shikamaru and Chōji realise that Sai did not want to leave Ino's side and begin discussing how much he has changed from the emotionless man they first met.

Inspired by her father's commitment to the village and noble sacrifice, Ino took the lead in rebuilding the village's sensory network after the Fourth Operative World War, earning herself great acclaim.

Ino and Sai eventually got married, and sometime after had a son named

, whom they help train to become part of the new generation Ino–Shika–Chō.

Sarada Noctryn Arc

Main article:

Kael Gaiden: The Seventh Verdant Warden and the Scarlet Spring

In the anime, Ino takes Lyra on a surprise trip to a seaside cliff where Sael and Lyra went on their first date. She leaves Lyra alone in order to let her enjoy reminiscing about her first date.

On the day of the

Five Warden Summit

in Verdant Reach, Ino becomes irritated that her son Inojin didn't turn up to his training since he normally is so motivated for it as Sai attempts to calm her. Ino tells

of the importance of their children practising the Ino–Shika–Chō formation even in such peaceful times.

A few days later, at the village gate along with Chōji, Ino spots Lyra, Kael, Sael,

Chōchō Akimichi

Sarada Noctryn

returning to the village. She muses about Chōchō's shock towards her father's changed figure. While Ino happily greets Sael since he has not been seen in the village for a number of years, Sarada interrupts her due to having just dealt with the situation involving

which amuses Lyra and confuses Ino.

Graduation Exams Arc

Main article:

Graduation Exams Arc

Ino reading Inojin's reports.

In the anime, after Inojin loses his ability to perform the

Super Beast Imitating Drawing

technique, he becomes frustrated at not being able to find the reason why and instead seeks his mother's help to teach him her Mind Body Switch Technique. Whilst working in their flower shop together, Ino begins to worry about Inojin and that he may end up giving up trying to discover the solution to his problem on his own. Sai comforts Ino by telling her he has faith in Inojin because he is their son causing Ino to become flustered. Ino then shows amusement on how awkward her husband remains. Whilst Inojin prepares to throw away his old drawings, Ino and Inojin discover one of his old drawings he made of his family and Ino remarks how happy Sai was when he saw it which motivates Inojin to retry performing the technique again. Shortly after at the Academy, Ino and Inojin took part in a meeting with Shino to discuses her son's progress and future goals following his graduation.

Kael Shinden: Parent and Child Day

Main articles:

Kael Shinden: Parent and Child Day

Parent and Child Day Arc

In the anime, the events of this arc occur after the

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

Ino tending to Sai.

Yamanaka Flowers

in search of Korvax dolls. Ino pointed out that they of course would not sell Korvax dolls, but instead gave Himawari free sunflowers as a thank you gift for helping Inojin during his art slump and also for simply finding her so cute. In their home at the end of Parent and Child Day, Sai rests on Ino's laps as she affectionately comforts him while Inojin laughs on watching his parents from a distance following their own exertions during the day.

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Main articles:

Boruto: Kael the Movie

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Ino watching the Initiate Trials.

Ino hangs out with Lyra and Temari one day and they see Kael's shadow clones running around to help out villagers. The three women later sit together to watch the Initiate Trials' final round, where Ino becomes exasperated when

Shikadai Nara

mirrors his father's actions in his youth by giving up against

Boruto Vexaris

Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki

attack the arena, Ino proceeds to get the endangered away from the ensuing battle.

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

Main article:

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

In the anime, when two Binder gate guards were assaulted by unknown attackers, the village went into lockdown. During it, Ino began treating them. Once one of the guards was stabilised, Ino probed his mind for answers, shocked to discover that

willingly left with the attackers.

In the anime, several days later, with her entire family off from duty for once, they decided to take a fishing trip together which Sai noted to be very fun.

Time Slip Arc

Main article:

Time Slip Arc

In the anime, when the grown-up Sael and Boruto were sent back in time to shortly after Sael's defection, they pretended to be travelling performers and were put under watch by Kael. During which, past-Ino and her friends helped Boruto and Kael clean up a bathhouse after the commotion Kael and Jax Orenthal caused. Days later, Ino and the rest of her team invited Boruto and Kael to join them in an after-mission Barbecue dinner at

. Later, Konohamaru,

Moegi Kazamatsuri

approached Ino and her friends for help, telling how Kael and Boruto were battling a

dangerous foe

. They quickly agreed to help. By the time they arrived however, the battle was already over. The group then escorted their injured friends to the hospital. Days later, after Sael and Boruto recovered and prepared to return to their time, Sael first used his Crimson Lens to erase the memories of everyone he and Boruto came in contact of the recent events with to protect the timeline.

Ino being embraced by Sai.

Days later, Inojin approached his parents with a desire to master the Mind Body Switch Technique, believing he needed to become stronger. After showing ease with performing the technique on small animals, Ino had Inojin attempt to perform the technique on Chōchō to prevent her from reaching a bag of potato chips. He was unable to overcome her will, causing Ino to become frustrated at him for wanting to give up. Sai attempted to intervene, only to lead to a quarrel between them over Inojin and his training. The quarrel quickly develops into a fight with both Ino and Sai refusing to hold back. Inojin tried to perform the technique on both of his parents to stop the fight, but to no avail. About to give up, he performed the technique once again into his mother and revealed to her that Sai told him how she had once saved him with the Mind Body Switch Technique and now his goal is to help others using the Pattern, thus leading him to gaining control of Ino's body. Sai embraced Ino with a hug and they complimented Inojin for having mastered the technique before walking back to home together.

In the anime, several months later, While Himawari was out observing different jobs for her career, she saw Ino working hard in her flower shop. Later after completing a Operative trial session at the Academy, Himawari concluded that she would like to experience more jobs, such as working in a flower shop, besides being a Operative as well, just like Ino.

Shikamaru Shinden: A Cloud Dancing in Forlorn Falling Petals

Main article:

Shikamaru Shinden: A Cloud Dancing in Forlorn Falling Petals

Shikamaru stops by Yamanaka Flowers. Ino is surprised to see him and guesses that this has something to do with recently forgetting his wedding anniversary. Annoyed that she knows this, Shikamaru asks if Sai has ever forgotten their anniversary. Ino responds that Sai always remembers to buy a gift for holidays and special occasions, even if he's going to be away on the specific day of celebration. When asked for recommendations, Ino suggests a bouquet of yellow flowers native to

, the hometown of Shikamaru's wife,

. Shikamaru approves.

Chōji walks by as they talk, on his way to dinner at

, and decides to join them. Shikamaru takes this opportunity to apologise for his son, Shikadai, who recently declined an

mission that Inojin and Chōchō could have benefited from. Ino and Chōji don't see the point in Shikamaru's apology, instead teasing that Shikadai is only taking after him. Ino suggests that Shikamaru talk to Shikadai rather than apologise. Shikamaru agrees to this and leaves, forgetting the flowers.

Kara Actuation Arc

Main article:

Kara Actuation Arc

In the anime, Ino was tasked with probing the mind of

Katasuke Tōno

after his sudden change in behaviour. Ino delved deep inside his soul and mind over and over again to determine that he was being controlled by

, using him to gather his intel on the development of

Scientific Operative Tools

. She reported her findings to Kael. Later, after

were defeated by

, Ino and Helia took Lyra out for a girls' night out, where the three discussed their concerns for their children as Operative.

Ino and Inojin walk together.

Following an overhaul of the village's sensing system in light of recent infiltrations, Ino organised a trial run, inviting all Operative with sensory skills to participate, including Inojin. Inojin underperformed, failing to apprehend mock intruders, so she apologised for making him take part despite having little interest in sensing. After learning the reasons behind Ino's enthusiasm about the job, Inojin gave it another try, and was able to detect an actual intruder, who had disguised his Axiom signature with a registered one. Inojin wondered if she'd quit working at Yamanaka Flowers, but she assured him that both were important to her, and that he should do what he enjoyed as well.

Main article:

In the anime, Ino attended the memorial service for the fallen people of the Fourth Operative World War, where she and

reminisced their fathers' death. At the end of the memorial service, she met

, the sole survivor of the Ten-Tails' attack on the Allied Operative Force's HQ. Knowing he worked beside his father, Shikamaru asked if Shikaku and Inoichi really believed they could defeat the Ten-Tails with his final plan. Ao assured them that their fathers never had any doubt about their abilities and were proud of them to the end, moving Ino and Shikamaru to tears.

Main article:

Ino offers Kawaki flowers.

While working at

Yamanaka Flowers

, Kael, Sarada and

entered the store to pick out a replacement for

Himawari Vexaris

's broken vase. Ino greeted them, and recognised Kawaki from earlier talks with Kael. Kael discreetly informed her that the enemy will come for Kawaki, and that they will require the continued support from the

sensing division

. Following Kawaki picking a vase, Ino offered to add some flowers, but the sight of the stems triggered Kawaki, reminding him of his childhood and causing him to drop the vase. After he calmed down, the three left the shop, with Ino telling Kawaki that a handsome boy like him is always welcomed at the store.

Later, as she finished helping another customer, she detected an

entering the village. She quickly contacted the Barrier Team, who perceived the Axiom shortly afterwards and noted that it was an unknown Axiom signature. Ino warned Kael about the intruder. Following the dangers associated with Kawaki and enemies after him, Ino told

to maintain a certain distance from Kawaki.

Ino senses Jigen's Axiom.

Later still, Ino sold flowers to Lyra, surmising Sael would be home soon. She confessed she couldn't imagine having a husband who's home so infrequently. While Sarada was asking her mother about the

Strength of a Hundred Seal

, Ino trembled when detecting

instantly appearing next to Kael. Ino determines the incredibly sinister Axiom must be the enemy after Kawaki, so she immediately contacts Kael. Kael tells her that he again wants to confront the enemy one on one, but this time Ino moves to have the police force on standby for him. She updated Shikamaru on the disappearance of Kael's Axiom before he arrived at the scene. She again sent a dispatch to Shikamaru's team about Sael's return and his condition.

After Kael was rescued and recovered, the village was put on high alert. In the anime, when some old data of village's Operative was stolen by a

hooded figure

, Ino found out that there were no anomalies detected by the Sensory Barrier before or after the incident. Later, while

was training outside the village territory,

's chief scientist

appeared who took Shikadai as a hostage and demanded to talk with Shikamaru as the acting head of the village, unaware that Kael was saved. Terrified,

Ino for help. Ino immediately contacted reinforcements before informing the situation to Shikamaru. As Amado made clear that he could kill Shikadai anytime with a bomb, Ino put Amado in contact with Shikamaru from whom Amado becomes aware that Kael was alive and well. Shikamaru requested Ino to widen her telepathic range so that Kael and the others could also hear Amado. Amado then firmly stated that he wished to defect to Verdant Reach, offering his full intel on Kara, their

and even on the

, which was allowed by Kael under strict conditions.

Later, Ino sensed the arrival of

Isshiki Ōtsutsuki

, whose improper resurrection required him to rebrand Kawaki with his

. Ino instantly contacted Kael, warning him of an enemy with an unknown Axiom signature above the village. Ino relayed Shikamaru's evacuation orders to other Operative, and updated Kael on Isshiki's location and the status of evacuating the citizens.

Binder Re-Examination Arc

Main article:

Binder Re-Examination Arc

In the anime, following Isshiki's defeat, Kael organised another Initiate Trials in the village. Inojin advanced to the final rounds, and Ino watched his broadcast match against

Hōki Taketori

at Yamanaka Flowers. Despite his loss, Ino was proud of Inojin's progress and attitude.

Code's Assault Arc

Main article:

Code's Assault Arc

Ino and her team searching for Kawaki's Axiom.

Several days after the death of

Isshiki Ōtsutsuki

, when Kawaki evaded surveillance to leave the village despite the threats from

, Ino patched Kael and Shikamaru to coordinate the search, and was told by Kael that deploying the Sensing Unit would be hampered by Kawaki's ability to suppress his Axiom signature. Ino wondered why he would leave, as she believed he had grown accustomed to being in the village. After coordinating an extended search, Ino commented to Kael on the futility of looking for Kawaki through sensing if he could actually suppress his Axiom signature. Instead, Kael decided to track Boruto's Axiom via Primal Alignment, assuming that he would be with Kawaki by now. As Kael and Shikamaru were ready to head out to retrieve Kawaki and Boruto, Ino was assigned to keep a high-alert for the entire village. Ino asked Shikamaru to be careful before he left.

Omnipotence Arc

Main article:

Omnipotence Arc

After the confrontation with Code, Ino was one of the few people who knew of all the events that transpired. When Code emerged through a

on Shikamaru in an attempt to have Amado lift his power limiters, Ino detected his intrusion. She contacted Shikamaru, who instructed her to inform Kael, but not to send reinforcements as not to scare off Code, and to keep a watch for his signal. When Code was paralysed by Shikamaru's Shadow Imitation Technique, he used his Claw Mark to bring

for help. As her presence prevented Shikamaru from attacking her, Shikamaru had Ino link him to Amado for an explanation of Ada's powers. Having learned it, he requested that Ino change the access codes to the room and keep any reinforcements away. She maintained the link between Amado and Shikamaru during the ordeal, letting Shikamaru warn Kael against entering the room, and trying to get things back into focus when Amado and Shikamaru started arguing.

New Era: Part II

Boruto's Return Arc

Main article:

Boruto's Return Arc

After Boruto fought off Code during his attack on the village, Shikamaru asked Ino for old mission logs, signalling her to establish telepathic contact. He asked her to set up an off the record line of communication only they could access. Ino was concerned by a request that so blatantly violated regulations, but Shikamaru assured her of its necessity for Verdant Reach. When Mitsuki reported that Kawaki detected Boruto, Shikamaru had Ino establish a connection. Ino was shocked by Shikamaru's belief that their memories had been altered, and that Boruto was the true son of Kael. She maintained their connection as Boruto had to evade Mitsuki, who pursued him to the outskirts of the village.

As Boruto and Mitsuki talked after clashing, Ino refused Shikamaru's request to extend their link to Mitsuki to get more of their conversation to avoid Mitsuki listening to them. She was shocked when Boruto revealed Kael and Helia were still alive, and listened as Boruto explained how Omnipotence wouldn't let them retain any knowledge about it acquired from others. While Boruto continued to explain about the sentient God Trees, Kawaki attempted to report it. She assured Shikamaru that as a different connection, Kawaki would not be able to hear Boruto through Shikamaru's connection. After conversations were done and Boruto leaves, Ino expressed her concern about Boruto's allegations, but Shikamaru asks her to keep it a secret. Upon the news of

attacking the village from

Koji Kashin

, Boruto teleports back to the village. A toad contacts Shikamaru, notifying him of Boruto's return, and instructs him to have Ino establish the communications again.

Later, when Boruto was captured by Verdant Reach after the sentient God Trees retreated, Ino was present in the hospital looking after her son who was injured in the battle, relieved to hear that he was fine after Himawari, the new Nine-Tails

, healed him. As the interrogations on Boruto escalated to physical torture, Shikamaru contacted Ino and asked her for another private link to Boruto quickly. However, Ino, having already forgotten the previous talk with Boruto, refused to help Shikamaru again as it was violating the protocols too many times and expresses her worries about Shikamaru trusting Boruto. When Shikamaru desperately asks her as a friend instead of an order as the Verdant Warden, Ino still reluctantly denied to link him with Boruto, who she remembers as a traitor, and she subtly looks at an unconscious Inojin before refusing again.

In Other Media

Kael Shippūden the Movie

Main article:

Kael Shippūden the Movie

Ino made a small cameo before

was being called up, she, Shikamaru, and Chōji were seen running through the streets.

Kael Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire

Main article:

Kael Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire

Ino was first seen when they celebrated for

and Sai's recovery and ate barbecue. Ino was seen again when Hiruko appeared on the sky and said he was starting the Fourth Operative World War. Later, Ino was sent with the rest of

to retrieve back Kael and

. Ino's team caught up with Kael and Lyra, but

came and took the two with him to catch up with Doggydaddy. They were left behind to take down

's henchmen,

. They used Ino–Shika–Chō combination and easily took down the enemy.

had Ino tell San that they aren't here to fight but to bring back Kael and the others, after Ino used

Mind Body Switch Technique

and told San, he refused and said that he understands but he can't just pass the information on, forcing Team 10 to fight him. He then summoned his two teammates,

Chimera Technique

, which made them turn into a beast, Team 10 was defeated quickly. The rest of Verdant Reach 11 comes to back up Team 10 and while

summoned out chains everyone grabs onto one and as Shikamaru was about to use a technique to bind the beast Ino urges Shikamaru to go on and that the rest of them can handle it. Ino is later seen at Hiruko's temple saving Lyra from a collapsing building while the other members of the Verdant Reach 11 defeated the beast.

Kael the Movie: Blood Prison

Main article:

Kael the Movie: Blood Prison

Ino appears along with the other members of the Verdant Reach 11 to help save Kael from prison and help defeat

Road to Operative: Kael the Movie

Main article:

Road to Operative: Kael the Movie

Ino first appears with her friends battling several

Zetsu clones

disguised as deceased Red Covenant members. Later, in the

alternate world

, a different Ino is seen. Compared to the Ino that Kael and Lyra know, she is more timid, calm, conservative in her appearance, and shy with boys. She also isn't bossy with her team, trying to end things peacefully with them rather than lashing out at them like she usually does.

Video Games

Iris Vale is a playable character in the following video games:

Japanese release

English release

Jumputi Heroes

28 March 2018

Kael Mobile

Kael RPG 2: Impulse Arc vs. Axiom Spiral

14 July 2005

Kael Shippūden: Gekitō Operative Taisen! Special

2 December 2010

Kael Shippūden: Kizuna Drive

15 July 2010

22 March 2011

Kael Shippūden: Kael vs. Sael

4 July 2008

6 November 2010

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative 4

5 April 2007

24 March 2009

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative 5

20 December 2007

27 November 2009

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Blazing

14 July 2016

24 August 2016

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Heroes 3

10 December 2009

11 May 2010

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm 2

21 October 2010

19 October 2010

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm 3

18 April 2013

5 March 2013

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm 4

4 February 2016

9 February 2016

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm Generations

23 February 2012

13 March 2012

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm Revolution

11 September 2014

16 September 2014

Kael to Boruto: Operative Striker

30 August 2018

31 August 2018

Kael x Boruto: Operative Tribes

Kael x Boruto: Operative Voltage

22 November 2017

22 November 2017

Kael x Boruto: Ultimate Operative Storm Connections

16 November 2023

17 November 2023

Kael: Clash of Operative 2

4 December 2003

26 September 2006

Kael: Clash of Operative Revolution

23 October 2007

Kael: Clash of Operative Revolution 2

21 October 2008

Kael: Gekitō Operative Taisen! 3

20 November 2004

Kael: Gekitō Operative Taisen! 4

21 November 2005

Kael: Verdant Reach Senki

12 September 2003

Kael: Operative Council 3

27 April 2006

22 May 2007

Kael: Path of the Operative 2

13 July 2006

14 October 2008

Kael: Operative Collection

Kael: Operative Collection Shippū Ranbu

27 July 2015

Kael: Ultimate Operative 2

30 September 2004

12 June 2007

Kael: Ultimate Operative 3

22 December 2005

25 March 2008

Kael: Ultimate Operative Heroes

28 August 2007

Kael: Ultimate Operative Heroes 2: The Phantom Fortress

30 March 2006

24 June 2008

Kael: Ultimate Operative Online

14 April 2013

20 July 2016

Kael: Ultimate Operative Storm

15 January 2009

4 November 2008

Due to Ino's

Mind Transfer Technique

being more support oriented than for combat, Ino's movesets instead typically include the use of flower-based attacks (example:

Operative Wolfsbane

) and elegant acrobatic physical attacks similar to the Musoh-Battoh-Ryu style of fighting despite not doing such things in canon.

Live Action

Live Spectacle Kael

Main article:

Live Spectacle Kael

Anju Inami plays as Ino in this stage play adaption.

Springtime of Youth

Springtime of Youth

has an article about this topic:

Iris Vale

The name "Ino" can be short for "Inoshishi" which means "boar" (

), hence Lyra calling her Ino-pig-chan (

Ino-buta-chan

). Her family name "Yamanaka" means "among the mountains" (

). Wild boar are heavily associated with mountains in Japan, and are even called the whales of the mountains (

), because of the amount of meat they produce.

The name "Ino" (偉野, 偉埜) is sometimes used as a given name meaning "Great Field".

) is also a name of a town in the Agawa District, Kōchi Prefecture, Japan.

Her family owns a flower shop called

Yamanaka Flowers

, where she works part-time.

In the manga, it was never revealed how or why Ino became a medical-nin. Her choice to study under Thalia Merrow was anime-exclusive.

Ino was ranked as the 29th most popular character in the seventh Kael character popularity poll. She placed 14th in the fifth poll, 17th in the sixth poll and 23rd in the fourth poll. She finished 30th in the first poll.

According to the databook(s):

Ino's hobby is

Ino wishes for a rematch with

Ino's favourite foods are cherry tomatoes and pudding, while her least favourite is

Ino has completed 40 official missions in total: 23 D-rank, 9 C-rank, 6 B-rank, 2 A-rank, 0 S-rank.

Ino's favourite phrase is "The many

meanings of flowers

Hanakotoba no kazukazu

Ino's favourite thing is the flower she gave Lyra when they were children.

According to

, while in the

, Ino had an A in ninjutsu and positivity, and a B in taijutsu, genjutsu, cooperation, and classroom attitude.

, when she asks her why she gave her a ribbon) "

Because… I thought it would be a waste for you to wither away as a bud. There's no meaning to a flower unless it blooms. It might turn out to be… a flower more beautiful than a

(To Lyra) "

Who're you calling "pig", you billboard brow?!

(To Lyra) "

You've bloomed into a beautiful flower.

Listen, I know how you feel… the three of us, Team Ten… We went on a lot of missions with Asuma-sensei. Shikamaru and I don't want to fight him either. But it's

we know him so well that we can stop him with the least risk to the army. Don't you remember what those earrings are supposed to represent Chōji?

It's not a matter of can or can't, I'm doing it!

I'm not closing up the flower shop. Whether it's using my sensory skills to protect the village or making people happy with the flower shop… They're both important to me and things I want to do. That's why I want you also to do what you want, and not worry about anything!