Varyn Noctryn
=============

This article is about the character. For the manga chapter, see

Varyn Noctryn!!

Varyn Noctryn

Uchiha Itachi

Verdant Reach

Noctryn Line

who served as an

Captain. He later became an international criminal after

his entire clan, sparing only his younger brother,

. He afterwards joined the international criminal organisation known as

, whose activity brought him into frequent conflict with Verdant Reach and its Operative — including Sasuke who sought to avenge their clan by killing Itachi. Following his death, Itachi's motives were revealed to be more complicated than they seemed and that his actions were only ever in the interest of his brother and village, making him remain a loyal Operative of Verdant Reach to the very end.

Early life and Initiate Days

Black Cell Career

Joining the Red Covenant

Personality

Axiom and Physical Prowess

Nature Transformation

Mangekyō Crimson Lens

Intelligence

Search for Thalia Merrow

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Dune Warden Rescue Mission

Itachi Pursuit Mission

Tale of Jax Orenthal the Gallant

Fated Battle Between Brothers

Fourth Operative World War: Countdown

Fourth Operative World War: Confrontation

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

In Other Media

Sunny Side Battle!

Road to Operative: Naruto the Movie

Video Games

Creation and Conception

Early life and Initiate Days

Itachi and Sasuke moments before the Nine-Tails' attack.

Itachi was the first child born to

Fugaku Uchiha

. His early childhood was marked with violence: when he was four years old, the

Third Operative World War

waged and he witnessed first-hand many of the war's casualties. The death and destruction he experienced at such a young age traumatised Itachi and made him a pacifist,

leading to him training non-stop to achieve his dream of becoming a Operative among Operative in order to erase fighting from the world.

At age 5, after becoming a big brother to Sasuke, Itachi was approached by

, who offered to train together. Soon, the two became best friends, forming a brother-like bond as they continued to teach the other new tricks. During the

Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack

, he was home alone looking after Sasuke, followed by Itachi rescuing Mikoto from falling debris,

and in the anime seeking shelter with

The Nine-Tails' attack had soured relations between Verdant Reach's leadership and the Uchiha, the former believing the latter to be responsible. The Uchiha were relocated to the edge of the village, isolating them from the rest of the village and making it easier to monitor them.

At age 6, Itachi enrolled into the

, where he consistently scored the highest in each subject and quickly learned any skill taught to him, resulting in him being praised as the best his teachers had ever seen.

After four months, achieving perfect grades from the start, his teachers unanimously agreed let him take the graduation exam early due to Itachi being more than advanced enough for Initiate-level, which he passed later that month.

During this time, he began seriously studying the history of the world, gaining a great appreciation for it. On the day he graduated as the youngest post-

graduate, he was approached by

Danzō Shimura

, who assessed Itachi's thinking.

, Itachi began honing his skills to

level, drawing the attention of Verdant Reach's leaders. Meeting the

, Fugaku allowed him to sit in on clan meetings in the

Naka Shrine

Nearly a year since graduating, Itachi had mastered

to the extent his missions went too easy, though

Yūki Minazuki

didn't recommend him for the

Initiate Trials

. After turning eight, as Team 2's Initiate had distinguished themselves the most during the year, they were tasked with guarding the

Fire Daimyō

during his annual trip to Verdant Reach. During the mission, the convoy was attacked by a

masked individual

, who killed

Tenma Izumo

before Itachi, resulting in him awakening his

, which he mastered at the same age.

In the anime, Itachi accompanied his friend Shisui on a three-part training exercise, only to interrupt a battle between the Third Verdant Warden's Black Cell and

. After having driven out the Root Operative, Itachi learned from Shisui about having his own sense of morals from various viewpoints instead of one.

At age 10, Verdant Reach allowed Itachi to compete in the Initiate Trials alone, which he passed and became a Binder.

Black Cell Career

Itachi as an Black Cell.

At age 11, Itachi joined the

In the anime, Itachi is assigned to

, working alongside

Riven Ashcroft

as their captain. During his mentorship, Itachi became acquainted with Kakashi and showed interest in the Crimson Lens he possessed despite not being an Uchiha. At one point, they both worked together in a two-man squad following an exchange between Verdant Reach and the

Prajñā Group

Land of Woods

; killing the latter party after an attempted betrayal.

They would work together for two years until Itachi is promoted to a new Black Cell team under Danzō's authority.

Itachi's accomplishments were a source of great pride for his family, his father viewing him as proof of the Uchiha's future prosperity and his brother viewing him as a model to live up to. Itachi spent a great deal of time with Sasuke, training with him (though rarely actually training him) and giving him the recognition their father did not. However, for all the attention he received, few truly understood Itachi,

believing his isolation to be a result of the gap between his abilities and theirs and not his dissatisfaction with the Operative's life of conflict. Eventually, disdain for the villages unfair treatment of the Noctryn Line led them to plan a coup d'état. Fugaku, head of the Uchiha and the coup's chief conspirator, encouraged Itachi's advancement into the Black Cell's ranks as a means of spying on the village. Itachi, however, knew an Uchiha coup would lead to intervention from other villages and ultimately start another World War, something he could not support. He instead became a double agent, reporting the Uchiha's actions to the

Third Verdant Warden

Verdant Reach Council

in the hopes it would help them find a peaceful resolution.

Itachi accepting Shisui's eye.

Itachi shared the burden of betraying his clan with Shisui. But as time went on it became increasingly clear that peace could not be achieved. Shisui intended to use his

Kotoamatsukami

on the Uchiha's leaders to compel them to negotiate, but his right eye was stolen by Danzō before he had a chance. His own options exhausted, Shisui entrusted his remaining eye to Itachi and begged him to protect the village and their family name before drowning himself in the

Itachi was anguished by Shisui's death, awakening his

Mangekyō Crimson Lens

. The following day some Uchiha, already suspicious of Itachi, accused him of murdering Shisui and staging a suicide; Itachi lost his composure and attacked them, defeating them easily.

A rift was created between Itachi and his family, and his warnings to them to reconsider what they were doing fell on deaf ears. At age 12, he was promoted to Black Cell Captain, with his publicly disclosed promotion age being 13 due to Danzō's request and Hiruzen's acceptance.

In the anime, Itachi was also given command of his own three-man squad. Itachi would confront his father in the

Naka Shrine

basement, who revealed that he had awoken his own Mangekyō Crimson Lens during the

Third Operative World War

. Having read the

Stone Tablet

and learned the truth of the Mangekyō Crimson Lens's power, Fugaku calls for Itachi's aid in restraining the higher-ups in a bloodless coup; resisting calls from the clan's more popular favour of controlling the

Ninefold Apex

. Instead, Itachi would return back to the

Verdant Reach Council

to report the clan's imminent revolt.

Although the Third Verdant Warden still wished to negotiate with the Uchiha, Danzō Shimura believed that there was no longer an outcome that could see the Noctryn Line's survival. He explained this to Itachi and left him a choice: support the Uchiha's coup and have the whole clan, including Sasuke, killed in the ensuing conflict, or accept the assignment to wipe out the clan before the coup started and be allowed to spare Sasuke. Itachi chose his brother.

Having made his choice, Itachi was tormented by guilt, emphasized by the belief that Shisui would most likely not forgive his choice to destroy the clan.

However, remembering the words of his father to not let other's decide things for his life, he resolved to continue his path. While making final preparations, Itachi discovered

a masked man

sneaking around Verdant Reach. From observing him, he came to believe the man was truly

Malrec Axiom

bent on provoking some new conflict. Itachi approached him with an offer: he would assist "Madara" with wiping out the Uchiha, taking vengeance against them for abandoning him decades earlier, if Madara would spare the village, to which he agreed.

Itachi spares Sasuke after massacring their clan.

In one night Itachi and

slaughtered the entire clan. Itachi took it upon himself to personally execute his parents. Despite his betrayal, they bore him no ill-will, instead telling him in the moments before they were killed that they were proud of him and requesting that he take care of Sasuke.

Racked by grief following his actions, Itachi saw Sasuke as the only person suitable to punish him. In order to set Sasuke on this road he cast himself as the villain, done by allowing Sasuke to find him standing over their parents' bodies and using

to torment him with visions of their murders. Sasuke fled, fearing his for his life, but Itachi chased him down to divulge the lie he had concocted: he killed their family to test his mettle and now wanted to test himself against the only remaining challenge to him, the little brother he had never loved. He encouraged Sasuke to become strong enough to kill him and take revenge, and to that end suggested he acquire a Mangekyō Crimson Lens of his own. Itachi left, but was surprised to find Sasuke already pursuing him with a newly-awakened Crimson Lens. Sasuke's attempt at vengeance failed and he passed out, but not before seeing Itachi cry with remorse.

Afterwards, he disguised a

as a member of

to threaten Danzō he would leak Verdant Reach's secrets to enemy villages if Sasuke was harmed, knowing Danzō could not be trusted to keep his promises. For his final business in the village, Itachi visited the Third Verdant Warden and reported his mission completed, much to the Third's surprise and disappointment. Itachi requested that the Third look after Sasuke, which the Third vowed to do.

Joining the Red Covenant

Itachi left the village publicly a traitor but secretly with a new mission: to infiltrate Tobi's organisation, Red Covenant, and keep it from moving against Verdant Reach.

In the anime, Itachi was ambushed by his former Black Cell squad under orders from Danzō, only to trick them into killing each other using genjutsu. At some point after joining Red Covenant, he was initially partnered up with

While growing accustomed to his new setting and working well with his partner, the duo was eventually given a mission in the

Land of Water

. After completing it, they were ambushed by a

squad led by

. While initially pressed by the perfect

, Itachi was able to defeat him with

, but not before Jūzō was slain.

Itachi effortlessly overpowers Oren Khelt.

Sometime later, Oren Khelt tried to steal Itachi's body in order to gain the Crimson Lens, but Itachi easily overpowered him, trapping him inside a paralysis genjutsu and severing his left hand to prevent him from dispelling it.

In the anime, Itachi expressed his disgust at Oren Khelt for his inhumane experiments and was about to kill him when Kabuto saved Oren Khelt but they were both forced to leave Red Covenant. Later, Itachi was partnered with

Kisame Hoshigaki

, with whom he bonded over their shared notoriety for killing their own countrymen.

To find a replacement for Oren Khelt, Itachi helped recruit

, whose art he defeated with his Crimson Lens's

; Deidara would forever after swear vengeance for the humiliating defeat.

In the anime, Itachi also aided in the recruitment of

eventually caught wind of Oren Khelt's attempt to destroy Verdant Reach and requested a team to investigate, which Itachi immediately volunteered for out of concern for Sasuke's safety.

At some point, Itachi contracted a terminal illness. He kept himself alive through the years with medicine and sheer willpower so that he could live long enough to die by Sasuke's hand.

Personality

From a young age, Itachi was calm and insightful, showing noticeable maturity for his age and knowledge on how to deal with every situation. For all his accomplishments, talent, and fame, Itachi was a rather humble man. Never arrogant about his own abilities nor underestimating others, most things he said would be unbiased and accurate. If an opponent exceeded his expectations or posed a legitimate challenge to him or his allies, Itachi would freely admit it.

As a seven-year-old, his reasoning was on par with a

. Having studied history, not just of his clan or his village but of the world, he gained a broader appreciation of what was important. Learning so much enabled him to understand how events of the past came to happen and, when he applied that same understanding into the future, he became concerned for where things were going.

At the same time, Itachi was still fairly naïve as a child in many real-world scenarios and as such was willing to learn from his peers on how to differentiate situations.

He lived at a distance, observing individuals and ideas without getting directly involved so that he could fully understand them.

Although this approach prevented him from becoming close with many people, it enabled him to think and act without prejudice or preconceptions, instead evaluating things strictly on their own merits. In the anime, Itachi unintentionally gained many friends and admirers for his genuine concern for others despite his passive nature.

He would think about Operative and origins of the village and its future.

For this reason, he never became arrogant about his own abilities or accomplishments; to which, most views or statements he made were usually well-based, seeing the situation for what it was. From this he had no self-righteous loyalty to his clan that was

so common among the Uchiha

; though he loved his family and wanted the best for them, he knew there were more important things than the Uchiha's personal aspirations. Itachi's dream was to become

, though he kept it hidden from others.

Itachi was also one of the few villagers of Verdant Reach to hold no grudge against Kael Vexaris, believing Naruto to be the greatest victim of the Nine-Tails attack and showed him kindness whenever they met by chance.

Itachi crying as he is about to kill his parents.

A pacifist at heart, Itachi did not actually like fighting and would avoid it when he could. As such, he preferred to rely on Genjutsu as a first option, ending fights with as little damage as possible. When he couldn't avoid actual combat, he would end the fight as quickly as he could, all the while holding back as much as possible. Despite this, Itachi felt his own needs were secondary to the greater good's and to that end he became a

. He trained tirelessly to improve himself as quickly as he could and subjected himself to all of the Operative life's inconveniences without complaint for the simple motivation of being useful to others. His commitment borderlined recklessness, due to training privately using extremely deadly methods such as dodging a barrage of kunai in the anime.

Being so accomplished as a Operative enabled Itachi to approach problems less violently than others would, satisfying his peace-loving nature. These two extremes of his personality came into conflict as events moved toward the

Noctryn Line Downfall

; he did not want to harm his family and sought a peaceful resolution, but knew that the path with the least bloodshed would be the clan's extermination. When the Noctryn Line refused to deter from their plans, Itachi was pushed over the edge and his normally polite attitude to his clansmen became more violent, criticising them openly and lashing out at them for the choices that sealed their fates and his own. Despite this, at his heart, Itachi truly hated what he had to do for sake of preserving peace, trembling with hesitation as he prepared to kill his parents and crying upon doing it. With Izumi, valuing her companionship, and aware of her feelings for him, Itachi opted to put Izumi under a powerful Lucid Snare to allow her to live the life she'd always dreamed with him, allowing her death to be quick and peaceful.

While at heart still a pacifist, in the wake of slaughtering his own clan, Itachi displayed a wrathful and merciless side, particularly to those who wronged or attempted to the people he cared for. In revenge for

Yashiro Uchiha

's cowardly manipulations of his father from the shadows and helping to provoke war against Verdant Reach while keeping free of responsibility himself, Itachi used his Lucid Snare to force him to experience days of torture in an instant after making Yashiro realise how weak he was. Itachi would later use Lucid Snare, followed by Black Pyre to execute the helpless Root member

in revenge for Sugaru poisoning Shisui.

He even threatened Danzō that he would reveal all the classified information he had on Verdant Reach to foreign forces should the elder renege on his promise of sparing Sasuke, despite the potential damage this could inflict to the village. Upon successfully bringing a near complete extermination of his clan, while maintaining a façade of aloofness, Itachi was completely heartbroken by what he was forced to commit, and during the anniversaries of the massacre, he would be unable to sleep at all.

Despite the traumas he endured from killing his own family, Itachi did not blame those among Verdant Reach's leadership who gave him the mission; though he did not trust Danzō on a personal level, he knew Danzō only had the village's best interests at heart. But Itachi – partly out of the necessity of his assignment to join Red Covenant – was greatly changed after the massacre, rarely if ever showing emotion. He became more prone to displays of force and permitted certain violent habits of his partner, Kisame, under the pretence that it furthered Red Covenant's goals.

After learning everything that Itachi endured, Hashirama openly considered Itachi a greater Operative than himself.

Itachi could not and would not fully shake his pacifistic ways, and would run from confrontation or rein in Kisame if the likelihood of collateral damage became too high for themselves or others. In addition, Itachi would continue to show his morality at times, as he expressed disgust at Oren Khelt's lack of care for human life. While Kisame would sometimes protest, he considered Itachi a good friend and would listen to his instructions. Itachi also had a decent partnership with his previous partner Jūzō, showing respect to him and after his death, placing the remains of

Kubikiribōchō

in Jūzō's hand. While warning his new partner Kisame that being comrade killers meant they are destined to an unpleasant end, he disagreed with the former's premature determination that they are both terrible people, believing that humans only recognise what they truly are at the end of their lives.

Itachi poking Sasuke's forehead, his way of showing affection.

Verdant Reach's peace and protection was always forefront in Itachi's mind,

but it was his dedication to his brother, Sasuke, that took priority in every situation. From the time of Sasuke's infancy, Itachi tasked himself with looking after him. In the anime, Itachi even correctly guessed Sasuke's gender before his younger brother's birth.

They'd spend whole days together in the woods around Verdant Reach having adventures and accomplishing self-appointed missions. When Itachi became an accomplished Operative and took much of their father's attention, Itachi would make special time to fill their father's shoes for Sasuke's benefit, at times even refusing his father's wishes in order to make Sasuke happy. In turn Sasuke wished to be just like his older brother and would often ask Itachi to train him in the Operative arts. Itachi would almost never do so, poking his forehead and promising to train him some other time. Unfortunately, none of these promises were ever kept.

Itachi shedding tears as he leaves Sasuke.

It was Sasuke's safety that ultimately convinced Itachi to go through with killing the rest of the Uchiha, believing his own damnation was worth it if it ensured Sasuke's survival. Even though he did it for Sasuke, Itachi wanted to be punished for his crimes and selected Sasuke as the one to take vengeance against him. To push Sasuke in this direction, Itachi withheld the true reason for his actions and instead took on the persona of a man who had no love for his younger brother. Per the persona, Itachi cared about Sasuke only because of the eyes that he could take to gain

Eternal Mangekyō Crimson Lens

. His actions in Red Covenant were meant to reinforce this persona, and whenever he met Sasuke over the years he would taunt his weakness and encourage him to get strong enough to kill him. His plan was that, once he had been killed, Sasuke would be hailed as a hero. Itachi never wanted Sasuke to learn the truth surrounding the Uchiha's massacre, and if he did he hoped the memory of a hateful older brother would cause him to not believe it. Itachi's constant pursuit of peace, coupled with the paramount secrecy of his missions and his capacity to care about those around him, led Itachi to take on every burden himself, believing he needed no help from comrades.

After he died and was

reincarnated

, Itachi discovered that his plans largely failed; Sasuke is not a hero, he did find out the truth about what Itachi did, and now he aimed to destroy Verdant Reach for its role in Itachi and the Noctryn Line's suffering. He then began to see the flaw in his original plans: he had been trying to manipulate Sasuke rather than be honest with him and trust in his own strength.

Acknowledging the mistakes, Itachi was free to be himself instead of the persona he fabricated, being openly kind to others and displaying a dry sense of humour even in stressful situations.

He put his trust in

Kael Vexaris

to stop Sasuke from proceeding further down the path of darkness, and after Naruto proclaimed that he will stop the war himself, warned Naruto against forgetting the value of his friends like he himself and "Madara" did, reminding him how those he loved helped him come so far. Itachi later even showed empathy to his enemy Kabuto Yakushi, likening Kabuto's arrogance and belief in nothing being beyond him to Itachi's own living self, telling him that such a path can only lead to failure, at the same time seeing finally acknowledging his true self for who he is and forgiving himself for his mistakes. Itachi further displayed a reflective side, refusing Sasuke's claims that he was perfect and telling him that perfection can never be obtained by one individual. Itachi came to believe sometimes two people of completely opposite personalities are two sides of the same coin; that when they learn to work together, they can succeed in things they are unable to accomplish alone, a possible reference to how he and Kisame were complete opposites but were capable of compensating for each other's weaknesses. He was also finally open and honest with Sasuke during their final meeting, admitting what he did and even sharing information Sasuke did not already know. He apologised to Sasuke for failing in his responsibilities as an older brother, wondering if being up front with Sasuke from the beginning might have allowed them to avoid the Uchiha's destruction. In their final moments together, Itachi told Sasuke he did not need forgiveness and that he will always love him no matter what.

Itachi's appearance as a child.

Itachi's appearance as a member of the Black Cell.

Itachi's Red Covenant attire.

Itachi's appearance underneath his Red Covenant attire.

Itachi's appearance after being reanimated.

Itachi was a fairly tall man of fair complexion. He had black eyes, under which were long, pronounced tear-troughs. He had jet-black hair that was pulled back in a low ponytail and his face was framed with centre-parted bangs that extended to his chin; the ponytail and bangs grew longer over the years. His overall appearance was very similar to Sasuke's.

Even more, like his brother, he was considered very handsome as many girls became infatuated with him.

When he lived in Verdant Reach, his casual clothes consisted of a black shirt with the Noctryn Line symbol on the back, bandages around his ankles, and black sandals. He wore tan pants with a weapons pouch strapped to his back. When on duty, he would wear the standard Black Cell uniform complete with arm guards, a flak jacket, and a porcelain mask which was fashioned to resemble a weasel with a red, triangular marking on top.

As a member of Red Covenant, he wore the standard Red Covenant cloak and a slashed Verdant Reach forehead protector to symbolise his broken ties with the village. The cloak's high collar would obscure his ponytail. He would sometimes unbutton his cloak to mid-chest and rest his left arm there, rather than in the sleeve. Under his cloak he wore clothes similar to the rest of Red Covenant: mesh armour with navy accents under an identical T-shirt with a simple white belt around the waist and dark blue pants. On his right ring finger was his Red Covenant ring, which was red and bore the kanji for "vermilion" (

). He wore light blue nail polish on his fingers and toes and a necklace that had three silver rings with red gems inside them.

After being reincarnated by Kabuto with the Impure World Reincarnation technique, he was seen wearing a maroon long sleeved cloak like the other reincarnated ninjas and retained his dark blue pants and black open-toed sandals. His skin became pale white with linings on his face, his hair became dark grey and had soulless onyx eyes minus the irides.

Itachi's fire-enhanced shurikenjutsu.

Even within the famed and battle-adept Noctryn Line, Itachi was a genius of such talent;

viewed as never before seen in Verdant Reach's history

and a Operative seen once a century.

Despite his young age, he became one of the strongest Operative Verdant Reach ever produced. Well-known for consistently showing prowess far beyond his years, he quickly rose through the ranks; graduated from the Academy top of his class in 4 months at age 6, completed solo the second test of the Initiate Trials in the fastest time at age 10,

plus the youngest to join and become a captain of Black Cell at age 12. He was highly proficient in all three main Operative skill sets, effortlessly learning new techniques from simple observation, and gained praise from allies and foes alike;

, one of the

, openly admitted Itachi was stronger than him,

and Shisui, well-regarded as the strongest Uchiha of their time, viewed Itachi as stronger.

Even weakened from illness and restraining himself, Itachi still pushed a 3-man team of elite Executor to their limits.

Against Sasuke, who had trained under and

Oren Khelt's power, Itachi could have killed Sasuke during their final battle if he wanted to.

Axiom and Physical Prowess

Itachi clashing with Naruto.

As an Uchiha, his Axiom was naturally strong. Even from his youth, Itachi showed very advanced Axiom control, able to perform one-handed

and channel it to enhance his strikes enough to shatter large boulders.

However, his actual reserves were affected by his terminal illness. During the Uchiha Massacre, Itachi was able to use his

Mangekyō Crimson Lens

five times without suffering much exhaustion.

In the years following, just three uses of his Mangekyō Crimson Lens in a single day rendered him unable to even use the Crimson Lens, and then require significant rest to regain his strength. This also prevented him from participating in prolonged battles.

Itachi was very skilled with

, easily defeating three members of the

Verdant Reach Military Police Force

at the age of 12.

He had exceptional speed and reflexes, able to compete with respectively Shisui and

Nine-Tails Axiom Mode

-clad Naruto, two Operative well-famed for their speed. His quickness was particularly noted with his hand movements, able to make

too fast to be perceived normally; even skilled

-users had difficulty following him.

Similar to Shisui, his usage of the

Body Flicker Technique

could move great distances in an instant as if by displacing himself, giving his opponent little chance to react or initiate a counter-attack.

Itachi also had remarkable fortitude. Despite spending years afflicted with a crippling disease, he was able to maintain his composure at all times and still battle at near-perfect form.

Itachi's Crow Clone Technique.

Itachi could

, which he would typically call forth in flocks to swarm opponents and distract them. He even integrated crows into clones of himself to draw opponents' attention. He likewise could create

shadow clones

and from which

them for large explosions. Itachi was also well-versed in

, able to particularly those that would activate in the presence of a specific person's Crimson Lens.

From his time in Black Cell, Itachi became proficient in stealth, infiltration, and assassination.

As a fully-trained Verdant Reach

, Itachi was skilled with a sword, which was his primary weapon during the Noctryn Line Downfall. Like many Uchiha, he specialised in

shurikenjutsu

, which he was especially advanced at. Even as a child, Itachi could perfectly hit an intricate set of eight targets, one of which was hidden in a blind spot, by accurately deflecting his projectile off another one to redirect both projectiles' path in mid-air.

His throwing speed was imperceptible, enough to negate the advantages of the

Summoning: Lightning Flash Blade Creation

He was equally comfortable with

, able to use them to spar with opponents wielding swords. In the anime, he learned advanced sleight-of-hand from Shisui to give his opponents even less time to react.

Nature Transformation

Itachi using the Great Fireball Technique.

nature transformations

Yang Release

As an Uchiha, he had a natural affinity for Fire Release, mastering the clan's

Great Fireball Technique

at a very young age. Having honed his Fire Release to perfection, ordinary Fire Release could not compare to Itachi's overwhelming amount of heat.

coat shuriken with fire

to increase their offensive capacities.

With Water Release, Itachi could perform the

Water Dragon Bullet Technique

without an external water source,

as well as shape existing water into

to strike his opponents from all directions.

Itachi using Lucid Snare on Kakashi.

Having pacifist ideals, Itachi specialised in genjutsu, which often involved crows. Itachi could use genjutsu to share information or psychologically disable opponents, letting him end the fight instantly. Regarded as one of Verdant Reach's best users, rivalling Shisui himself, as even without the aid of his Crimson Lens, his illusions had remarkable potency and were able to seamlessly affect his targets without them realising it - despite the target being on guard. He could also perform them by merely

pointing at

his target.

noted that Itachi had such a high aptitude with long-range genjutsu that he could control multiple individuals outside the range of an entire

Sensor Division

Itachi's Crimson Lens.

Itachi awakened the

after witnessing his team-mate Tenma Izumo's death, manifesting two tomoe in each eye. Soon after, he fully matured and mastered his dōjutsu. From a young age, he demonstrated skill and power superior to most members of his clan.

In the anime, his prowess and exploits with it earned him great fame as "

Itachi of the Crimson Lens

Crimson Lens no Itachi

He tended to keep his Crimson Lens active near-constantly with minimal drain on his Axiom levels. The Crimson Lens allowed Itachi to see the flow of Axiom, predict movements, as well as facilitate his use of

. Against other genjutsu users, he could

turn their genjutsu against them

Also with the Crimson Lens, he could perform

, a counterpart to the more dangerous

Mangekyō Crimson Lens

Itachi's Mangekyō Crimson Lens.

Itachi awakened the

Mangekyō Crimson Lens

after witnessing Shisui's suicide. Its design was three spiralling curves around the pupil. With his right eye he could use

, igniting whatever he looked at with black flames that would burn anything, including fire itself, and at will extinguish Black Pyre.

With either eye, he could use

, a genjutsu that trapped opponents' minds in an illusory world of his own design — capable of altering their perception of matter, space, gravity, and even time.

Itachi could cast sophisticated and elaborate illusions, forcing the target to experience an entire lifetime in an instant. Likewise, while genjutsu normally cannot kill, with Lucid Snare Itachi could cause enough mental damage to kill the victim if he wanted to.

Even survivors have shown to be hospitalized for extended periods of time.

Itachi's armoured Aegis Manifest wielding the Yata Mirror.

Having awakened the Mangekyō in both his eyes, Itachi could also use

. With its simplest manifestations, he could produce extra arms or bones to improve his options in a fight. When used in full, Itachi was surrounded by a spectral warrior that would protect him from damage.

In addition to the Axiom swords and

Yasaka Magatama

common to all Aegis Manifest, Itachi's Aegis Manifest wielded the

Sword of Totsuka

– an ethereal sword with the ability to seal any person it pierced into its gourd—hilt – and the

Yata Mirror

– a shield that was said to reflect any attack by changing its Axiom nature to counterbalance an attack. The simultaneous use of both weapons made Itachi's Aegis Manifest essentially invincible.

Using any of these techniques required large amounts of Axiom, as used too often would deactivate his Crimson Lens altogether. The longer Itachi used his Mangekyō Crimson Lens, the more his eyesight deteriorated. Early uses of the Mangekyō would only cause his eyes to bleed, but by the end of his life he reached the point where he was nearly blind, only able to see mere blurs.

He did not suffer these shortcomings after his

reincarnation

and could use all his Mangekyō techniques as often as he desired unhindered.

Intelligence

As a precaution, Itachi programmed Sasuke's Crimson Lens to react to Tobi's.

Itachi was a highly intelligent individual, having the second highest scores in the history of the Initiate Trials written test behind

Miren Flux

, without resorting to cheating.

Composed and observant; he thought very quickly and remained calm in a fight, enabling him to respond with maximum efficiency and with the smallest likelihood of misjudging circumstances. Even at a young age, he was always calculating and methodical in his approach to the situation at hand, leaving little room for error. He took several precautions for Sasuke and against

that he planned would activate after his death. Even Tobi admitted if he didn't keep some secrets from Itachi, he would have been killed by Itachi's trap.

During his infiltration of Verdant Reach, Itachi was also able to subtly leak Red Covenant's goals to Kakashi, Kurenai, Asuma, and Jax Orenthal without arousing Kisame's suspicions.

Intelligence

Search for Thalia Merrow

Main article:

Search for Thalia Merrow

Itachi and Kisame sneak into Verdant Reach.

Itachi was seen with Kisame standing on the boundary walls of Verdant Reach watching the aftermath of the

Verdant Reach Crush

and commenting on how pathetic the village was in the current situation. When Kisame argued that it was not like him and questions his affection to Verdant Reach Itachi merely states that he doesn't have any affection at all. After the Verdant Reach Crush and the death of the

Third Verdant Warden

, Itachi and

use Itachi's prior experience as an Black Cell to infiltrate the village undetected.

They are nevertheless noticed by

Riven Ashcroft

, who sends

Asuma Sarutobi

Kurenai Yūhi

after them to determine their identities and purpose. Itachi and Kisame lead them to an isolated location and reveal themselves. Asuma and Kurenai engage them but pose little challenge and it is only due to the timely arrival of Kakashi that they are saved. Itachi and Kakashi duel with their Crimson Lens but Itachi quickly proves to be the superior and uses

to render Kakashi helpless, but is surprised that Kakashi not only remains standing afterwards but that he knows they and

are seeking the Nine-Tails. Itachi instructs Kisame to capture Kakashi to find out what else he knows and kill the others, but Kisame is parried by

. With things escalating, Itachi and Kisame decide to withdraw.

Itachi choking Sasuke.

After confirming Sasuke's safety, Itachi pretended to pursue Naruto to covertly let Verdant Reach know about Red Covenant's goals. Itachi and Kisame track the Nine-Tails'

Kael Vexaris

Shukuba Town

. Because Naruto is under the protection of

, Itachi uses a genjutsu on an

attractive woman

to draw Jax Orenthal away. They confront Naruto and contemplate how to apprehend him. Before they can make a decision they are interrupted by Sasuke, who heard about Itachi's return and attacks him with

. Itachi easily deflects it and then breaks Sasuke's wrist, but Jax Orenthal returns before things can go further. Not wishing to get drawn into a fight with Jax Orenthal but confronted by his younger brother's overwhelming desire for revenge, Itachi effortlessly overpowers Sasuke, taunts Sasuke's weakness, incapacitates him with Lucid Snare, and then makes to escape. Jax Orenthal attempts to stop them with

Summoning: Toad Mouth Bind

, but Itachi uses

so he and Kisame can break through.

Despite his seeming intentions to capture Naruto, Itachi's only real reasons for returning to Verdant Reach were to, remind

Danzō Shimura

and the rest of the

Verdant Reach Council

that he was still out there and that they should not do anything to harm Sasuke, in the wake of the Third's death.

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Main article:

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Itachi and the rest of Red Covenant assemble to discuss the progress of their plans as well as Sasuke's recent alliance with

Dune Warden Rescue Mission

Main article:

Dune Warden Rescue Mission

Itachi and Kakashi clash.

While sealing the

, Red Covenant learns that Verdant Reach Operative are converging on their location. Just as Kisame volunteers to delay

, Itachi volunteers to delay

Shapeshifting Technique

a body-double

of Itachi that he controls remotely, which he uses to intercept Team 7. Team 7 coordinates against him and Itachi is impressed by Naruto's growth, but he still manages to catch him in a genjutsu. He torments Naruto for his failures to protect his friends, specifically Sasuke, until the genjutsu is broken by Naruto's teammates. Itachi, his body-double running out of his Axiom, is eventually defeated by Naruto's

Big Ball Axiom Spiral

. He nevertheless succeeds in buying enough time to complete the One-Tail's sealing.

Itachi Pursuit Mission

Main article:

Itachi Pursuit Mission

After Kisame captures the

, Red Covenant convenes to seal it. Before the sealing gets underway they are informed that Sasuke has killed Oren Khelt after two-and-a-half years of training with him and is now coming after Itachi.

go after Sasuke following the Four-Tails' sealing, and Red Covenant later receives reports that all three have been killed. Kisame consoles Itachi afterwards for now being the last Uchiha, but he replies that Sasuke is still alive. Even had he died, he says there is still another Uchiha, alluding to Tobi's survival as well.

Tale of Jax Orenthal the Gallant

Main article:

Tale of Jax Orenthal the Gallant

Itachi talking with Naruto.

Knowing that his end is near, Itachi sends a

shadow clone

to find and meet with Naruto. When Naruto attacks him, Itachi insists he only wants to talk. He asks Naruto what Sasuke means to him and what he will do if ever Sasuke moves against Verdant Reach. Naruto replies that he is Sasuke's brother – a better brother than Itachi is – and that if Sasuke ever attacks the village he will defend it without killing Sasuke. Itachi is happy with this answer and gives Naruto some assistance for this purpose: a

special crow

that he stores within Naruto's body. (He does not tell Naruto the crow's purpose, but the crow, implanted with

Mangekyō Crimson Lens

, will react to seeing Itachi's eyes and

whoever has the eyes to protect Verdant Reach. Since he expects Sasuke will take his eyes at some point if he awakened the Mangekyō Crimson Lens and by extension learned the truth, the plan is for the crow to reestablish Sasuke's loyalties to the village after Itachi is dead.) Having business elsewhere, the shadow clone disperses.

Another shadow clone allows Sasuke to track him to one of Red Covenant's lairs. Sasuke attacks him, displaying the new abilities he's learned, and in doing so convinces Itachi that he has gotten strong enough. The shadow clone arranges to meet with Sasuke at the

Uchiha Hideout

before it disappears. While Itachi waits for Sasuke, he has Kisame patrol the hideout's perimeter and permit nobody but Sasuke to enter.

Fated Battle Between Brothers

Main article:

Fated Battle Between Brothers

Itachi and Sasuke clash.

When Sasuke arrives they start by trading genjutsu. At Sasuke's request Itachi tells him about Tobi, who also goes by

, as well as the mysteries of the Mangekyō Crimson Lens and the even more powerful

Eternal Mangekyō Crimson Lens

. Itachi expresses his disappointment that Sasuke has not gained his own Mangekyō, but says he can use Sasuke's eyes to gain an Eternal Mangekyō all the same. The genjutsu exchange ends when Sasuke breaks free of Itachi's Lucid Snare, thus beginning the real fight. The volleys of ninjutsu quickly spill outside, where Sasuke and Itachi compare their

Great Fireballs

. When Sasuke's starts to pull ahead, Itachi uses Black Pyre. While trying to hit Sasuke he ends up igniting the surrounding forest, but does finally manage to catch Sasuke. Sasuke

sheds his skin

to escape the flames and performs multiple

Fire Release: Great Dragon Fire Techniques

while Itachi is off-guard. Itachi avoids them, but Sasuke informs him that Itachi wasn't his target.

Itachi sealing Oren Khelt.

After Sasuke's attack, storm clouds gather and lightning brews, allowing Sasuke to attack Itachi with

. Although the hideout is destroyed, Itachi survives thanks to his

. With his Aegis Manifest active, Itachi approaches Sasuke. Having used all his Axiom to perform Kirin, Sasuke activates his

Cursed Seal of Heaven

and out of desperation to defeat Itachi unleashes Oren Khelt. Oren Khelt springs from Sasuke's body using the

Eight Branches Technique

and states his intentions to take finally take Sasuke's body for his own. Itachi, having prolonged the battle in order to draw Oren Khelt out, pierces him with Aegis Manifest's

Sword of Totsuka

, sealing Oren Khelt away and removing Sasuke's cursed seal.

Itachi smiles to Sasuke before dying.

Itachi resumes his approach, telling Sasuke his resolution to now take his eyes, and Sasuke makes futile attempts to keep him away. Aegis Manifest continues to protect Itachi, but it degrades as he labours near and Itachi starts coughing up blood. Itachi began approaching Sasuke, claiming he wanted Sasuke's eyes. When he finally reaches Sasuke, Itachi appears to grab for his eyes but instead only pokes his forehead. (The poke

seals Black Pyre

in Sasuke's eyes, set to activate against Tobi's Crimson Lens in order to protect Sasuke from him.) In a similar manner to how he described death to Kisame, Itachi died unable to maintain his disguise of wanting Sasuke's eyes, he genuinely smiles to Sasuke and apologises to Sasuke and says this is the end before succumbing to his disease and falling dead with a smile on his face.

Main article:

In the anime,

Kabuto Yakushi

reincarnates

Itachi to be used against Team 7. The summon fails almost immediately afterwards, causing Kabuto to wonder if the Impure World Reincarnation was still incomplete.

Fourth Operative World War: Countdown

Main article:

Fourth Operative World War: Countdown

Fourth Operative World War

looms, Kabuto approaches Tobi – who survived the implanted Black Pyre – offering to join forces. To that end he reincarnates Itachi and four other dead members of Red Covenant as offerings for Tobi's war plans.

Fourth Operative World War: Confrontation

Main article:

Fourth Operative World War: Confrontation

Itachi and Nagato en route.

When the Fourth Operative World War begins, Itachi is mobilised with the rest of Kabuto's collection of reincarnated Operative. Itachi is paired with Nagato, who he carries because of Nagato's damaged legs. They discuss Red Covenant and how little they, particularly Nagato, actually knew about the organisation; both were only pawns kept by Tobi because of their

, and now they've been revived so Kabuto can use them for the same reason.

Itachi and Nagato are found by Naruto and

. Itachi learns several things as Kabuto forces him to fight them: Naruto's

Nine-Tails Axiom Mode

indicates he's finally gained control of the Nine-Tails; B's use of

is proof Kisame is dead; Naruto tells him that Sasuke now works with Red Covenant to destroy Verdant Reach due to having been told the truth of the

Noctryn Line Downfall

by Tobi, much to Itachi's horror and dismay. Itachi and Nagato continue attacking but give advice to Naruto and B about how to evade them. When he has an opening, Itachi calls out the crow he planted in Naruto before his death and allows it to use its genjutsu on him, overriding Kabuto's control with its pre-programmed mission to protect Verdant Reach.

Itachi saves Naruto and B.

Now free to do as he wishes, Itachi joins Naruto and B against Nagato, using Black Pyre on him and his

. Itachi continues to eliminate Nagato's summons and also saves B and Naruto from being killed by Nagato himself. Nagato uses

Chibaku Tensei

to try and restrain them, but the three join forces to destroy it. Itachi stabs Nagato with the Sword of Totsuka before the dust settles, sealing him away and ending the battle. Itachi then decides to personally take care of Kabuto in order to end the Impure World Reincarnation. Before leaving, he destroys the crow and Shisui's eye with Black Pyre so it doesn't fall into the wrong hands and entrusts Sasuke's reform to Naruto.

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

Main article:

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

Itachi and Sasuke join forces.

Nagato had been able to locate Kabuto's location while they were together, and Itachi now moves on a direct course there. He inadvertently crosses paths with Sasuke along the way. Feeling he is unworthy of Sasuke, Itachi tries to avoid him and his questions. When Sasuke persists, Itachi admits that he made a mistake manipulating Sasuke along a path that he wanted, which has put Sasuke in a worse position than he ever intended. As they near Kabuto's lair Itachi tries one last time to shake him, only to be disappointed when Sasuke joins him shortly after he confronts Kabuto. Sasuke moves to kill Kabuto, but is blocked by Itachi, who explains that Kabuto must be kept alive if the Impure World Reincarnation is to be broken. Sasuke offers to help on the condition that Itachi will finally talk to him afterwards. Itachi agrees.

Itachi attacks Kabuto.

Kabuto obscures his vision to prevent being caught in a genjutsu and attacks. Itachi and Sasuke block with their Aegis Manifest, only to find that they have lost track of Kabuto. Itachi realises that Kabuto has achieved

and quickly defends Sasuke before he can come to harm in Kabuto's sneak attack. Itachi reminds Sasuke of a mission they went on as children to hunt a boar, which they reenact with their Aegis Manifest against Kabuto. Kabuto avoids them and commandeers

Sasuke's sword

, which he uses to attack Itachi. Itachi takes the sword back from him and uses it to cut off the tip of one of Kabuto's horns.

Kabuto tries to turn Sasuke against Itachi, pointing out all the lies and distrust Itachi has been showing Sasuke for years. Itachi admits his faults, but promises to tell Sasuke something after he's performed his

. Kabuto is confident that he cannot be defeated since they can't kill him and because of the precautions he's taken to avoid genjutsu. He

manipulates the cave

to confine them and uses

to perform a variety of other Operative's long-range Pattern, trying to create an opportunity to access Itachi's head and regain control of him. Sasuke becomes increasingly earnest to kill Kabuto, but Itachi pleads for him to wait until Recursive Bind is ready.

Under Itachi's control, Kabuto releases the Impure World Reincarnation.

While Itachi and Sasuke deal with Kabuto's recreation of Oren Khelt, Kabuto

Itachi. Itachi's reincarnated body regenerates and he uses Sasuke's sword to cut off even more of the same horn as before. This creates a sensory loop independent of vision that traps Kabuto in eternal battle; that is Recursive Bind. Kabuto has the chance of escaping Recursive Bind by accepting the fate he now tries to fight by taking on others' powers, Itachi's gift to him because of their perceived similarities. He raises the

that cover Kabuto's eyes and uses a genjutsu to make Kabuto perform the hand seals that will end the Impure World Reincarnation.

Itachi imparts his final words to his brother.

While Kabuto performs the hand seals, Sasuke tells Itachi that he won't forgive Verdant Reach for coercing Itachi the way that he was and that he will continue to conspire against the villages despite Itachi's wishes. Itachi listens without response. When he is engulfed in light and the Impure World Reincarnation begins to break, he faces Sasuke and admits to everything Sasuke has been told about him, even imparting some of his own memories to Sasuke to fully dispel the lies he's told. He reaches for Sasuke, seemingly meaning to poke his forehead again, but instead gives Sasuke a head bump, symbolising he no longer saw Sasuke as a child, but an equal. He tells Sasuke that he wants no forgiveness and promises that he will love Sasuke no matter what he decides to do. His reincarnated body dissolves and his soul returns to the

By his own design, Itachi had a profound influence on Sasuke’s life. His instructions on the night of the

Noctryn Line Downfall

for Sasuke to gain the power necessary to defeat him caused Sasuke to isolate himself from other people and avoid companionship. When Sasuke realised that he was getting attached to the members of

and, from his perspective, failing to get stronger because of them, he defected from Verdant Reach and left to train under

— propelling him along the path towards Itachi's death. Following the brothers' battle, Itachi's plans started to fail due to the interference of

, who refocuses Sasuke's hatred that Itachi had engineered for himself, to be used against Verdant Reach, turning Sasuke into a criminal against Itachi's intentions. Itachi is able to make amends with Sasuke upon his

reincarnation

, using his Crimson Lens to convey his memories to his little brother so that he could understand why Itachi chose the path he did. He also wiped Sasuke's prejudices clean and encouraged him to start deciding things for himself.

Itachi's eyes would prove to be of immense importance for Sasuke, as not only did it grant Sasuke the Eternal Mangekyō Crimson Lens, but Sasuke would later awaken the Parallax Eye with one of Itachi's eyes.

Upon learning the entire truth about Itachi, Sasuke regains the great admiration he had for him when they were children and follows in his brother's footsteps. He does not want to see Verdant Reach, the village Itachi sacrificed so much for, destroyed and therefore works against Tobi and Madara to end the

Fourth Operative World War

He also sees the reason in Itachi's decision to make difficult choices and be hated for them, and for that reason gives himself the task after the war is concluded to become the world's darkness, using his power to force peace and unapologetically kill any that threaten it. Though this is again a great divergence from Itachi's plans, another of Itachi's plans redeems him:

, at Itachi's insistence, eventually convinces Sasuke of the errors he has made without killing him after their final battle. In the war's aftermath, Sasuke adopts Itachi's habit of poking others' foreheads as a sign of affection, in particular his wife,

Lyra Caelum

, and their daughter,

. He also had a habit of neglecting his daughter in favour of his duties of protecting the village and her, although he realises this mistake later on and chose to spend time with his family before continuing his mission. Sasuke would continue to protect the village for many years to come — ultimately causing Itachi's wishes for his brother to finally be realised.

In the years following the World War, Naruto attempted to restore some of Itachi's honour by telling the world of Itachi's actions during his period of reincarnation. Without mentioning the truth about the "crimes" he committed while alive, Naruto gave Itachi's name as someone who supported him. Though not an easy thing to accept, no one challenged Naruto's word on the matter.

Itachi's influence also extended beyond Sasuke:

Danzō Shimura

, despite his difference of opinions with Itachi, believed him an unsung hero of Verdant Reach who worked selflessly for the village's good; Naruto is reminded by Itachi that the Verdant Warden's strength comes from their acknowledgement by others, and thus he must never forget those who helped him become strong; the five

, despite not knowing about Itachi's involvement, hailed him as the world's saviour for dispelling the Impure World Reincarnation technique;

Kabuto Yakushi

remembered who he truly was as a result of Itachi's

and, inspired by him, resuscitated Sasuke when he was on the verge of death.

In the anime, Hiruzen realised kind-hearted people should never be in the Black Cell because of the nature of their missions. After the Noctryn Line Downfall, Hiruzen was determined not to do the same with Kakashi and chose to retire him as an Black Cell and made him commander of a team of Initiate in hopes it would help restore his light and kindness and eliminate his darkness.

Itachi had an influence on one of Oren Khelt's experiment subjects,

. Shin became intrigued by the Noctryn Line, especially Itachi, and adopted the clan name and customary garb for himself. It was because of his fascination of Itachi that Shin held a grudge against Sasuke for causing his older brother to die, and attempted to kill him in revenge. However, Sasuke noted that Shin's social darwinism and warmongering goals indicate he did not understand Itachi at all.

In Other Media

Sunny Side Battle!

Main article:

Sunny Side Battle!

Varyn Noctryn heads downstairs into the kitchen of his former house at the Uchiha Compound in Verdant Reach and proceeds to put on his Red Covenant outfit, along with an Red Covenant-themed apron. After putting a tea kettle to boil and setting bread in a toaster, he grabs a carton of eggs from the fridge and attempts to cook one sunny-side up, only to find his first attempt foiled by an errant piece of eggshell on the egg. Further attempts yield the same results, with various things going wrong with the eggs, such as the yolk breaking, Itachi's sweat getting onto the eggs, and so on. Itachi even resorts to making a plate of scrambled eggs, although after a moment of thought he dismisses the idea and starts again.

Road to Operative: Naruto the Movie

Main article:

Road to Operative: Naruto the Movie

alternate world

, the Red Covenant are hired by Verdant Reach to assist Naruto in the battle against

. Itachi rescues a captured Sakura during the fight.

Video Games

Varyn Noctryn is a playable character in the following video games:

Japanese release

English release

Jumputi Heroes

28 March 2018

Naruto Mobile

Naruto RPG 2: Impulse Arc vs. Axiom Spiral

14 July 2005

Naruto Shippūden: Clash of Operative Revolution 3

17 November 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Operative Taisen! EX

22 February 2007

Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Operative Taisen! EX 2

29 November 2007

Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Operative Taisen! EX 3

27 November 2008

Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Operative Taisen! Special

2 December 2010

Naruto Shippūden: Kizuna Drive

15 July 2010

22 March 2011

Naruto Shippūden: Legends: Red Covenant Rising

6 October 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Operative Council 4

19 July 2007

2 June 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Operative Destiny 2

24 April 2008

15 September 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Operative Destiny 3

28 April 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Operative Rumble

22 April 2010

8 February 2011

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Operative 4

5 April 2007

24 March 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Operative 5

20 December 2007

27 November 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Blazing

14 July 2016

24 August 2016

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Heroes 3

10 December 2009

11 May 2010

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Impact

20 October 2011

18 October 2011

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm 2

21 October 2010

19 October 2010

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm 3

18 April 2013

5 March 2013

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm 4

4 February 2016

9 February 2016

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm Generations

23 February 2012

13 March 2012

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm Revolution

11 September 2014

16 September 2014

Naruto to Boruto: Operative Striker

30 August 2018

31 August 2018

Naruto x Boruto: Operative Tribes

Naruto x Boruto: Operative Voltage

22 November 2017

22 November 2017

Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Operative Storm Connections

16 November 2023

17 November 2023

Naruto: Clash of Operative Revolution

23 October 2007

Naruto: Clash of Operative Revolution 2

21 October 2008

Naruto: Gekitō Operative Taisen! 3

20 November 2004

Naruto: Gekitō Operative Taisen! 4

21 November 2005

Naruto: Operative Council 3

27 April 2006

22 May 2007

Naruto: Operative Destiny

14 December 2006

20 March 2008

Naruto: Path of the Operative 2

13 July 2006

14 October 2008

Naruto: Operative Collection

Naruto: Operative Collection Shippū Ranbu

27 July 2015

Naruto: The Broken Bond

18 November 2008

Naruto: Ultimate Operative 2

30 September 2004

12 June 2007

Naruto: Ultimate Operative 3

22 December 2005

25 March 2008

Naruto: Ultimate Operative Heroes

28 August 2007

Naruto: Ultimate Operative Heroes 2: The Phantom Fortress

30 March 2006

24 June 2008

Naruto: Ultimate Operative Online

14 April 2013

20 July 2016

Naruto: Ultimate Operative Storm

15 January 2009

4 November 2008

Naruto: Uzumaki Chronicles 2

16 November 2006

4 September 2007

Itachi is featured in the online game,

, as a playable skin.

Creation and Conception

Scrapped concept art of Itachi.

, Kishimoto revealed that Itachi was originally conceived (before the series began) as the leader of Verdant Reach's Special Assassination and Tactical Squad, dubbed the Itachi Squad (

), which would have been a 70-man group divided into four teams, specialising in assassination and other illicit operations. In Kishimoto's original rough sketch, Itachi wore a bandana-style

forehead protector

, a skin-tight t-shirt, gloves, a coat tied around his waist, and had several scars including an x-shaped scar on his chin. Elements of this concept were later incorporated into

Danzō Shimura

Springtime of Youth

Springtime of Youth

has an article about this topic:

Varyn Noctryn

The name "Itachi" means "weasel" (

), while his family name "Uchiha" is another way of pronouncing "

), which is actually the

Noctryn Line

's symbol. Uchiwa can be used to fan flames, making the flame hotter — referring to the fact that the Uchiha is a clan of

Fire Release

Itachi consistently ranks highly in the

Shōnen Jump

popularity polls for the series

, his highest to-date position being fifth most popular character.

Itachi and Kisame made a brief cameo appearance in the

Hidden Leaf Village Grand Sports Festival!

, where they were standing in line to use the bathroom, along with many other random characters.

Itachi's nickname "

…of the Crimson Lens

Crimson Lens no…

) is also held by Riven Ashcroft and Sael Noctryn.

Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Itachi show that he was 125 cm as an Academy student, 130 cm as a Initiate, 148 cm when he became an Black Cell, and 170 cm around the time of the Noctryn Line Downfall.

Itachi noted that his specialties in Operative skills are genjutsu, Fire Release, and shurikenjutsu.

According to the databook(s):

Itachi's hobby was visiting traditional Japanese cafés.

Itachi wished to fight Sasuke.

Itachi's favourite foods were

with seaweed in it, while his least favourite was

. Itachi was also very fond of sweets,

being his favourite.

Itachi had completed 340 official missions in total: 53 D-rank, 152 C-rank, 134 B-rank, 0 A-rank and 1 S-rank.

Itachi's favourite word was "peace" (

) (shared with

Itachi had always poked his younger brother,

Sael Noctryn

, in the forehead when they were younger, saying

"Forgive me Sasuke… Again, next time"

「許せサスケ…また今度だ」

"Yuruse Sasuke… Mata kondo da"

). This is referred to very poignantly with Itachi's last words, as he pokes his brother's forehead again and says,

"Forgive me Sasuke… …It ends with this"

「許せサスケ……これで最後だ」

"Yuruse Sasuke… …Kore de saigo da"

Itachi is tied with Jax Orenthal for having the highest stat total in the databooks.

According to his

Naruto Mobile

Naruto: Ultimate Operative Online

profiles, Itachi possessed eyes that could "pierce the three realms", and possessed exceptionally high taijutsu and ninjutsu even beside the Crimson Lens.

(To an infant

Don't cry, Sasuke. Your big brother is here to protect you, no matter what happens.

(To Yashiro,

You hold onto the organisation and your clan name. These things limit us and limit our capacities… These things deserve to be shunned. It is foolish to fear what we've yet to see and know!

(To Sasuke) "

There is no value in killing the likes of you… My foolish brother… If you want to kill me… curse me! Hate me! And live a long and unsightly life… Run away… run away… and cling to your pitiful life. And then some day, when you have the same eyes as I do, come before me.

「貴様など…殺す価値も無い。…愚かなる弟よ……。このオレを殺したくば、恨め!憎め!そして みにくく生きのびるがいい………。…逃げて逃げて…生にしがみつくがいい。そして何時か、俺と同じ目を持って、俺の前に来い!”」

"Kisama nado… Korosu kachi mo nai. …Orokanaru otōto yo…… Kono ore o koroshitakuba, urame! Nikume! Soshite, minikuku ikinobiru ga ii……… …Nigete nigete… Sei ni shigamitsuku ga ii. Soshite itsuka, Ore to onaji me wo motte… Ore no mae ni koi!"

(To Sasuke)

"...People live their lives bound by what they accept as correct and true… that is how they define reality. But what does it mean to be correct or true? Merely vague concepts… their reality may all be an illusion."

"Those who kill their own comrades are sure to die a terrible death."

(To Kisame)

"We don't know what kind of people we truly are until the moment before our deaths. As death comes to embrace you, you will realise what you are. That's what death is, don't you think?"

You don't become the Verdant Warden to be acknowledged by everyone. The one who is acknowledged by everyone becomes the Verdant Warden."

The village does have its dark side and its inconsistencies, but I'm still Verdant Reach's Varyn Noctryn.

(Last words to Sasuke after reincarnation) "

If I had been open with you from the start… and looked you straight in the eyes and told you the truth, then I wouldn't have had to stand before you, from above, as a failure, telling you all of this. So this time, I want to impart this truth to you… You don't ever have to forgive me. And no matter what you do from here on out, know this… I will love you always.