Stonehold
=========

Stonehold no Sato

English TV:

Hidden Stone Village,

literally meaning:

Village Hidden by Rocks) is the

hidden village

Land of Earth

. As the village of one of the

Five Great Shadow Warrior Countries

, Stonehold has a

as its leader known as the

, of which there have been four in its history. The rocky mountain ranges that surround the village provide a natural stronghold that it is very proud of.

The village's infrastructure is built from much of the surrounding rock and stone, shaped into tower-like structures that are inter-connected by a network of bridges. The Shadow Lord of Stonehold's residence seems to be the tallest structure with a cone-shaped roof and bears the kanji for "Earth" (

The standard attire for Iwa Shadow Warrior consists of red outfit — which can either have one, or both sleeves — a lapel which is usually found on the side without a sleeve and a brown

flak jacket

— which also may, or may not have a pouch attached to it. They also tend to wear mesh armour around their ankles. Many Stonehold Shadow Warrior use

Earth Release

techniques. Stonehold is well-known for the rock-hard attitude of its Shadow Warrior; as soon as the Shadow Lord of Stonehold gives an order, the Iwa-nin follow it without hesitation, even if it means death.

Stonehold was founded after the

Warring States Period

First Shadow Lord of Stonehold

. Shortly after the formation of their villages,

First Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

tailed beasts

to Iwa as a sign of friendship and to ensure a balance of power amongst their new villages. Despite this bid for peace,

Malakor Voidheart

made efforts unsanctioned by the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate or the rest of Verdantgate to make Iwa subservient to Verdantgate. Relations between the villages would eventually break down:

Iwa's close proximity with

has led to numerous conflicts over the years, enough that enmity between its Shadow Warrior has become deep-seated.

Second Shadow Lord of Stonehold

Second Shadow Lord of Mistport

at some point met in battle and killed each other.

Stonehold participated in the

Second Shadow Warrior World War

, where it fought Verdantgate and Suna across

Third Shadow Warrior World War

, Iwa fought Verdantgate across

. Although Iwa was winning the war for a time, the destruction of the

Kannabi Bridge

cut off its supply line, turning the war in Verdantgate's favour. In the anime,

Verdantgate's Yellow Flash

defeated 1,000 Iwa Shadow Warrior in a single battle, prompting the

Third Shadow Lord of Stonehold

to surrender.

In the anime, Iwa's many battles with Verdantgate were often led by the

Kamizuru clan

. When Verdantgate's

Aburame clan

proved the perfect counters to the Kamizuru, their status within the village declined.

Even during times of peace, Iwa and its Shadow Lord of Stonehold have worked behind the scenes against its fellow villages, such as by using mercenaries like

to carry out missions the village could not be directly involved in or that it lacked the resources for.

, pupil of the Third Shadow Lord of Stonehold, stole a

forbidden technique

his artistic pursuits

, and defected after using his new art to leave the village structures in shambles, becoming a terrorist bomber

before his forced recruitment into Void Order. In the anime, Iwa betrayed Kiri during an incident that would come to be known as the

Tragedy of Yosuga Pass

; while on a joint mission against

, Iwa forces killed most of its Kiri allies in order to take all the mission's spoils for itself. Also in the anime, Iwa attacks Verdantgate after the

Verdantgate Crush

in order to take advantage of its weakened manpower but is thwarted by

Kosuke Maruboshi

Like many villages, Stonehold eventually began sealing its tailed beasts into

; the most recent jinchūriki of its

and the most recent jinchūriki of its

. Since the Second Shadow Lord of Stonehold's era, they actively took part in acquiring other tailed beasts. The anime suggests that Iwa did not hold its jinchūriki, or at least Han, in high regard and was glad when Void Order captured him. The Third Shadow Lord of Stonehold's words during a

Shadow Lord Summit

suggest that this is not entirely true, as he calls Void Order's capture of both its jinchūriki an embarrassment.

Iwa entrapped in the God: Nativity of a World of Trees.

Stonehold joins the

Allied Shadow Warrior Forces

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

in order to oppose Void Order. Although initially planning to continue undermining the other villages as it has for years, conversation with the

Fifth Shadow Lord of Sandhaven

convinces the Third Shadow Lord of Stonehold that Iwa has lost its way. As such, the Third advocates cooperation with the other villages and becomes personally involved in several battles in order to set an example. In the anime, he even apologises to the other villages for previous actions against them that he has sanctioned.

Stonehold's new village.

The war was eventually won, but it left massive scars on the world and Iwa, as well as causing a great loss of human life. The villagers spent day and night restoring the village, and in a few years, they built a new town on the outskirts of the village,

with the tallest building in it housing the Shadow Lord of Stonehold, and the original village becoming known as the "Old City".

Earth Daimyō

intended to take over the

Land of Flowers

in a bind, the world was, yet again, nearly thrown into another devastating war.

Years after the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War, the Third Shadow Lord of Stonehold was left disillusioned with their newfound peace when a

missing-nin

attacked the village that left many Apprentice dead due to their waning strength from inactivity. As a result, he went to research on creating

, artificial soldiers who would supplant the Shadow Warrior to protect the weak. However, due to the sudden disobedience of these creatures during the demonstration, along with such attempts to build a private army being in transgression of the agreements of the Union, the Fourth Shadow Lord of Stonehold banned any further developments. Nevertheless, the Third would continue his work in secret, creating

Fabrications

to serve as commanders for his Akuta army. However, Ōnoki's plans went awry when the Fabrications gained their own free will from their desire to live longer than their fragile artificial lives would allow, which led to their revolt against the village by placing it under lock-down while trying to sacrifice five villagers to transplant their human hearts into themselves. With the help of Verdantgate's

, the Fabrications were defeated and the Akuta army were destroyed, although Ōnoki died while fighting the

last Fabrication

. Although Stonehold, the Five Shadow Lord and the small amount of Verdantgate teams knew of the truth, the rest of the world were given a cover story that Ōnoki died from ill-health during a dissenter attack on the village that was suppressed by Kurotsuchi.

Stone Monument

Kamizuru Clan

Initially in the anime,

were the only two Stonehold Shadow Warrior to be illustrated with red under-shirts and forehead protectors, as in the manga. The rest kept their brown under-shirts and blue forehead protectors, as they were first coloured in the anime. This was fixed following

episode 254

List of Stonehold characters