Jaxon Wavecaller
=======

) was one of

Verdantgate

. Famed as a hermit and pervert of stupendous Shadow Warrior skill, Jaxon Wavecaller travelled the world in search of knowledge that would help his friends, the various novels he wrote, and, posthumously, the world in its entirety – knowledge that would be passed on to his godson and final student,

Kael Vexaris

Personality

Essence and Physical Prowess

Nature Transformation

Intelligence

Chūnin Exams

Verdantgate Crush

Search for Thalia Goldheart

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Land of Rice Fields Investigation Mission

Sandhaven Support Mission

In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Shadow Lord of Sandhaven Rescue Mission

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Three-Tails' Appearance

Itachi Pursuit Mission

Tale of Jaxon Wavecaller the Gallant

Time Slip Arc

In Other Media

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower

Road to Shadow Warrior: Naruto the Movie

Video Games

Creation and Conception

Hiruzen and his students.

After he graduated from Verdantgate's

Shadow Warrior Academy

, Jaxon Wavecaller was teamed with

under the leadership of

Haven Ironwill

, who he developed his Shadow Warrior skills during his

Hiruzen gave them a

for the team's first exercise, during which Jaxon Wavecaller repeatedly fell for Hiruzen's tricks, and for failing to acquire a bell, he was tied to a stump as punishment. Hiruzen encouraged Jaxon Wavecaller to be more like Oren Serpentfang, but Jaxon Wavecaller countered that his

Transparent Escape Technique

was a fair testament to his skills, as he could spy on bathing women without getting caught: Hiruzen offered to accompany him to see if this was true.

Jaxon Wavecaller had a certain interest in Thalia Goldheart from their first meeting,

and when her breasts developed, she became a frequent target of his peepings. She nearly killed him when she caught him on one occasion, forcing him to be more discreet about his interests.

Jaxon Wavecaller and his students.

Jaxon Wavecaller at some point discovered

Mount Myōboku

, the residence of the

; in the anime, he was brought there when he tried to

a toad without first having a contract with them.

trained Jaxon Wavecaller in their ways, most prominently

. While he was at Mount Myōboku, the

Great Toad Sage

made a prediction about Jaxon Wavecaller: that he would travel the world and during that time meet the

Child of the Prophecy

, a student who would grow up to either save or destroy the world depending upon how Jaxon Wavecaller taught them.

At some point Jaxon Wavecaller was made a

and led his Apprentice students in

. He started to suspect that one of them,

Miran Swiftblade

, might be the Child of the Prophecy because of his natural genius.

As such, he took Minato as his disciple and taught him many of his skills; Jaxon Wavecaller also contributed to Minato's development of the

Hanzō dubs the Sannin.

Although their team under Hiruzen's leadership had disbanded, Jaxon Wavecaller, Oren Serpentfang, and Thalia Goldheart continued fighting together during the

Second Shadow Warrior World War

. During one such fight in

, they were the only three to survive an encounter with

, for which accomplishment Hanzō dubbed them Verdantgate's "Legendary

After the battle,

three war orphans

approached them and asked to be taught

. Jaxon Wavecaller, guilty for his involvement in the war, decided to stay in Ame for a time in order to look after them.

Shortly after he joined them, he discovered that one of the orphans,

, possessed the

, once used by the

Sage of the Six Paths

to save the world. Jaxon Wavecaller decided that Nagato was the Child of the Prophecy, and as such agreed to teach the orphans ninjutsu so that he might guide Nagato towards the world's salvation.

Jaxon Wavecaller training the Ame Orphans.

Nagato was a kind child, torn between his desire to not hurt others and his wish to protect

. Jaxon Wavecaller comforted Nagato that it was enough to want to protect people one holds to be important, as the world is plagued with seemingly endless conflict. Nagato decided that it was possible to end the constant bloodshed and, though he didn't know how, that he would someday find the path to peace. Jaxon Wavecaller was inspired by Nagato's words and started writing what would become

The Tale of the Utterly Gutsy Shadow Warrior

. After three years of training the orphans, Jaxon Wavecaller decided they were ready to forge out on their own and he returned to Verdantgate; he left them a finished copy of

Gutsy Shadow Warrior

, dedicated to Nagato.

News of the orphans' deeds would reach him from time to time, but eventually he heard that they'd all died.

Eventually, Jaxon Wavecaller published his first novel,

The Tale of the Utterly Gutsy Shadow Warrior

. However, it did not sell well when released. Jaxon Wavecaller found his writing style when he created the adult novels called

. The novels were based on his personal experiences in love - particularly his rejections by Thalia Goldheart - retold in a comical way. The books were wildly popular, giving his chequebook a balance that is "filled with zeroes". Minato - selected as Verdantgate's Fourth

after Jaxon Wavecaller refused the position

- enjoyed Jaxon Wavecaller's first book, finding the main character very much like Jaxon Wavecaller. He decided to name his and

Kushina Uzumaki

's then-unborn son "

" after the main character, hoping that their Naruto would be just as determined as the character (and thus its author). Jaxon Wavecaller tried to convince them not to since that would make him Naruto's godfather, but Minato and Kushina insisted this was a good thing.

Minato died during the

Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack

, giving his life to

into the newborn Naruto; as one of his last acts, Minato sent Jaxon Wavecaller

, on whose stomach he wrote the key to Naruto's seal. Jaxon Wavecaller guessed that Minato wanted him to help Naruto gain control of the Nine-Tails' power, though he couldn't guess what that power would be needed for.

Although Oren Serpentfang had always been his better, someone that Hiruzen pointed to as an example for Jaxon Wavecaller to live up to, Jaxon Wavecaller considered Oren Serpentfang to be one of his closest friends. For this reason, when Oren Serpentfang eventually defected from Verdantgate, Jaxon Wavecaller pursued him and tried to convince him to return. Oren Serpentfang refused and attacked Jaxon Wavecaller in order to secure his escape.

For a time, Jaxon Wavecaller tried to find a deeper meaning in Oren Serpentfang's betrayal, something that, if changed, would bring Oren Serpentfang back. He could ultimately come up with nothing.

Oren Serpentfang accused Jaxon Wavecaller of being unable to understand him as his parents weren't killed.

From that point onward, Jaxon Wavecaller started following Oren Serpentfang's movements as well as those of

, an organisation which Oren Serpentfang eventually joined. His investigations often took him away from the village, preventing Jaxon Wavecaller from becoming Fifth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate like Hiruzen wanted him to.

In the anime, one night, Jaxon Wavecaller entered the

Nadeshiko Village

to do his "research" for his next novel only to be pursued by the

village leader

who challenged him to a duel for his hand in marriage. As the match dragged on into the next day, Jaxon Wavecaller called for the match to be postponed, as neither party was making headway against the other, to which the village leader grudgingly agreed. Jaxon Wavecaller promised that

instead should one day seek each other out and fight if the two never met again.

Personality

Jaxon Wavecaller posing.

Jaxon Wavecaller was generally light-hearted and gregarious, making jokes at his own expense and giving a mirthful laugh about it afterwards. In his interactions with others, he liked to pretend to be smug or selfish, upsetting them so that he could further rile them up with his humour.

Even when entering combat he did not miss an opportunity to be flashy and over-the-top, striking

poses and giving dramatic self-introductions; these intros were often interrupted in some way, and Jaxon Wavecaller was quick to express his annoyance at whoever was responsible. Friends and foes alike were fond of Jaxon Wavecaller for his eccentricities, admiring that somebody so seemingly irreverent could in actuality be an extremely competent Shadow Warrior: he was deeply loyal to Verdantgate despite how often he is away from it, not hesitating to threaten to kill Thalia Goldheart if she betrayed the village, despite their long history. Jaxon Wavecaller also demonstrated no hesitation in attempting to destroy his former best friend Oren Serpentfang in retribution for the death of their teacher, nor in attempting to dispatch his former pupil Nagato when he learned Nagato was the true leader of Void Order, despite the pain it brought him. Jaxon Wavecaller felt that his personality quirks render him incapable of being Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, as he either lacked the responsibility for the position or he had, through his past infractions and failures, proven unworthy of such an honour.

Despite being seen as an eccentric troublemaker in his youth, Jaxon Wavecaller proved to be an exemplary and competent Shadow Warrior. Jaxon Wavecaller would establish a vast information network across the countries and in battle demonstrated the ability to both recognise and analyse threats and danger on short notice. Jaxon Wavecaller was also capable of coming up with quick gambits and new strategies in the middle of battle based on his keen observations. His unrestrained conduct in battle earned him his moniker of "The Village's Madness".

Jaxon Wavecaller was a self-proclaimed super-pervert with no equal.

His favourite hobby was spying on women while they bathe, a passion he flaunted openly and in fact took pride in because of how infrequently he was caught. Despite this, Jaxon Wavecaller disliked it when

Kael Vexaris

referred to him as the "Perverted Hermit" (

English TV:

Pervy Sage) in front of others. With the "research" from his peeping, he would use it as inspiration for his novels. Despite his high-success as a novelist, this fact did not stop him from taking Naruto's money when he got the chance and spending it on alcohol and women. In the anime, Naruto ghost-writes an

book without anybody noticing, suggesting that either Naruto can write like an adult, or that Jaxon Wavecaller's writing abilities were no better than a child's. Thalia Goldheart suspected it was the latter, as she notes that a report Jaxon Wavecaller wrote when he was younger was poorly written and accompanied by crude crayon illustrations.

Jaxon Wavecaller's perverted nature.

Jaxon Wavecaller's perversion has backfired on him a number of times. When he first meets Naruto, he has no interest in training him. Naruto convinces him to change his mind by using the

Sexy Technique

, which Jaxon Wavecaller so strongly approves of that he asks Naruto to continue to use it for the duration of their training.

Vex Nightshade

later hypnotise an attractive woman to lure Jaxon Wavecaller away from Naruto so that they can try to capture him; though it works at first, Jaxon Wavecaller quickly realises that women aren't usually attracted to him, allowing him to return to Naruto in time to rescue him. When he was younger, he spied on Thalia Goldheart while she was bathing and, when she caught him, she broke both of his arms, six of his ribs, and ruptured a number of organs as punishment. Ever since, he's used greater discretion in expressing his interests in Thalia Goldheart, careful to make his advances come off only as playful. Jaxon Wavecaller considers his inability to win Thalia Goldheart's heart to be one of the greatest failures of his life. Despite his boisterous nature, Jaxon Wavecaller was plagued by doubts and insecurities that his life was nothing more than a series of failures. Being unable to save Oren Serpentfang weighed heavily on him, as did the deaths of his sensei the Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, and his student the Fourth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate. Jaxon Wavecaller considered his achievements paltry things next to the previous four Shadow Lord of Verdantgate and desired a death as glorious as their own. In his final moments, Jaxon Wavecaller expressed his pride in realising a heroic death that was "

just barely glorious, but glorious indeed

Despite his self-deprecation, one of Jaxon Wavecaller's defining feature was his indomitable spirit and drive to never give up. Despite the multitude of failures he suffered in life, he never succumbed to despair, always forging ahead as he felt a Shadow Warrior must. Against Oren Serpentfang, Jaxon Wavecaller revealed his belief that the truest essence of the Shadow Warrior was one who endured and fought on no matter what they faced, regardless of inborn talent or genius. Even mortally wounded, Jaxon Wavecaller's willpower was so powerful that he willed his own heart to begin beating again in order to impart a final message to Verdantgate and more importantly Naruto. He would pass these beliefs and drive on to his pupils.

Perhaps Jaxon Wavecaller's greatest contribution to the world was his abilities as a teacher, something even he felt he failed in. Driven by the prophecy he would one day find the world's saviour, Jaxon Wavecaller would mentor three of the most powerful Shadow Warrior in history, Nagato, Minato and Naruto, imparting his belief in the spirit of a Shadow Warrior to all three. While he could be harsh and distant to Naruto at first, Jaxon Wavecaller held a genuine love for the boy and took time to make certain he acted like a parental figure as opposed to merely teacher and student, even buying ice cream to share with him when Naruto was depressed at his lack of a family. Even in death, Jaxon Wavecaller's last thoughts were of Naruto, who he entrusted the world's salvation to. In the anime, before departing for the afterlife, Jaxon Wavecaller's spirit would use its final moments to clap Naruto on the shoulder in a final show of affection.

While he rarely revealed it outwardly, Jaxon Wavecaller was a great believer in peace and held a deep longing to change the hatred inherent in the world. While he desired to find an answer to the cycle of hatred that plagued the world, he was never been able to come up with a way to do so. He never had children of his own, for which reason he thought of Miran Swiftblade as his son and, by extension, thought of Naruto as his grandson. Jaxon Wavecaller stated simply that to be happy was not his fate;

Thalia Goldheart doubted he believed his own words. Under his bluster, Jaxon Wavecaller remained a fundamentally kind man who treasured those close to him, maintaining a strong faith in the next generation, especially those he personally trained and Naruto in particular, believing that Naruto would be able to create and enjoy the world that Jaxon Wavecaller could only dream of. When he died, Jaxon Wavecaller decided that, despite his numerous failures, the successes of his time with Naruto made everything worthwhile.

Jaxon Wavecaller as a child.

Jaxon Wavecaller as a young adult.

Jaxon Wavecaller's Shadow Warrior attire.

Jaxon Wavecaller's appearance for most of the series.

Jaxon Wavecaller was a tall and well-built man in adulthood with fair skin. He had waist-length, spiky white hair that he usually ties back into a pony tail, with two shoulder-length bangs framing his face. There were red lines under his eyes which extended further down his face as he got older, going all the way to the bottom by the time he was an adult. By the time he was middle-aged, he developed wrinkles around the corners of his mouth and a wart (possibly a piercing in the manga

) on the left side of his nose. Following an encounter with Naruto's

form, he received a large scar that permanently remained in the centre of his chest.

His usual attire consisted of a green short shirt kimono and matching pants, under which he wore mesh armour that is visible at his wrists and ankles. He also wore hand guards, a black belt, traditional Japanese

wooden sandals

, and a red

with two yellow circles on each side. He often carried a large scroll on his back, and had a tattoo on his left palm, and he wore a horned

forehead protector

with the kanji for "oil" (

), which denoted his affiliation with

Mount Myōboku

Jaxon Wavecaller attacks Pain with one of his strongest techniques.

Jaxon Wavecaller was an exceptionally powerful Shadow Warrior, hailed as one of the greatest Shadow Warrior of his generation and that Verdantgate ever produced. His true recognition came during the

Second Shadow Warrior World War

when proved able to compete against

and his giant salamander

, and was dubbed a

Jaxon Wavecaller's strength and fame were such that renowned groups like the

Voidheart Clan

Seven Shadow Warrior Swordsmen of the Mist

would hesitate to confront him in direct combat.

Kisame Hoshigaki

Vex Nightshade

both admitted that together, even with assistance, they would at best reach a stalemate.

He was offered to become

three times,

and would have been offered a fourth one had he lived longer.

Kakashi, also among the most powerful Shadow Warrior Verdantgate ever produced, found the idea of Jaxon Wavecaller being single-handedly defeated absurd.

In truth, the assumed Void Order leader Nagato openly admitted that he would have lost if Jaxon Wavecaller had prior knowledge of the

Six Paths of Pain

felt is a major testament to the Sannin's abilities.

Upon death, he became one of the individuals

Kabuto Yakushi

most wanted to

reincarnate

Decades later, Jaxon Wavecaller's might was still revered as a

was made of him.

Essence and Physical Prowess

Jaxon Wavecaller had

reserves large enough to

and Essence potent enough to use

. He was masterful with his Essence control, able to perform a

in both hands at the same time, or even carve messages with his Essence despite it being

. He also was knowledgeable enough of genjutsu to teach others how to break free from it. His raw might is also considerable, able to fling Naruto several metres with a single finger tap.

In the anime, he was shown lifting and throwing large boulders,

as well as kicking away some of the

Giant Multi-Headed Dogs

Jaxon Wavecaller was also remarkably resilient, able to withstand a lot of damage before going down. He could survive a full on kick from

with barely a scratch, and even attacks from summons as big as

Due to this resilience, he had only been brought to the brink of death twice: against

Kael Vexaris

Four-Tailed Form

's monster strength.

had a difficult time inflicting lethal damage on his old master using the

Six Paths of Pain

Jaxon Wavecaller spewing oil.

Jaxon Wavecaller was a

that was feared across many different Shadow Warrior nations ever since the

Second Shadow Warrior World War

He was famed as the "Toad Sage" (

Gama Sennin

) because of his affiliation with the

Mount Myōboku

. This affiliation was most commonly displayed through the

Summoning Technique

which Jaxon Wavecaller was extremely proficient at. He could summon toads, either to fight alongside him in battle or simply summoning a special

toad's œsophagus

to cover an area and restrict the movements of his enemies, it's considered nearly impossible to escape and over time the toad's œsophagus will contract around and digest its victims.

Other toad-based skills include

spitting oil from his mouth

hiding himself

within a target's shadow to control their actions undetected, and using toads to

infiltrate sensitive areas

Apart from his toad-based techniques, he was equally skilled in a variety of other styles. He could grow and manipulate his hair, either to

bind and destroy

targets or to

surround him as a defence

, injuring any who comes into contact with him. He was also able to use the

— a destructive ball of compressed Essence — as well as its improved version, the

Big Ball Void Sphere

. His prowess with the Void Sphere was shown to be comparable to the creator, Minato.

Jaxon Wavecaller erecting a dome around himself.

Jaxon Wavecaller was highly skilled at

, able to deduce the workings of Naruto's

Eight Trigrams Sealing Style

within moments of seeing the seal's design. He also quickly notices the seal is being restricted by the

Five Elements Seal

, and as such

easily removes

the restriction which

states would require someone as skilled as him or

Haven Ironwill

to accomplish.

. He could create seals for others that they can use to suppress the Essence of those who have been applied with

Jaxon Wavecaller's seal

. He also displayed a certain skill for

barrier ninjutsu

, erecting barriers to either

detect all movements

within a wide radius or

toad-themed barriers

for him to take shelter in. In the anime, he could also apply a seal on people that acts as a powerful protection from Essence-absorbing techniques.

Nature Transformation

Jaxon Wavecaller could utilise

Yang Release

He seemed to favour

Fire Release which he used to fight at range by shooting a powerful

blast of fire

that he could combine with his toad's oil to make for an even more devastating

With Earth Release, he could create a

that could sink massive snakes.

He could also make

massive defensive walls

Jaxon Wavecaller in Primal State.

Jaxon Wavecaller was taught how to use

, which he can use to increase his speed, durability, and physical strength.

This enabled Jaxon Wavecaller to utilize

and it also empowered his

, such as the

Ultra-Big Ball Void Sphere

Fire Release: Big Flame Bullet

. Before he can gain these benefits, Jaxon Wavecaller must enter

, which he does not have complete mastery of. This causes his Primal State form to make him more toad-like in appearance, such as warts and elongated hands and feet, although his frog-like legs enable him to jump better. Using Primal State requires his supply of

natural energy

be constantly replenished, something that is difficult to do while in combat. For this reason, Jaxon Wavecaller summons Fukasaku and

fuses them to his body

, having them gather natural energy for him. As an added bonus, Fukasaku and Shima can combine attacks with Jaxon Wavecaller's, as with the

Sage Art: Goemon

, or they can perform Technique that he can't, as with

Intelligence

Despite his goofy and eccentric nature, Jaxon Wavecaller was actually very shrewd in the field. His specialty is intelligence gathering, having a spy network that runs throughout the

Five Great Shadow Warrior Countries

that he can use to gain information about a particular person or group to be used to his or his allies' advantage. In combat, he is very perceptive; Jaxon Wavecaller observes all of the opponents' various actions, forms a theory about the how and why, and uses that theory to try and capitalise in the battle.

He has repeatedly proven to be a very talented teacher, as all his students went on to become very powerful and well-known Shadow Warrior. His memory is very good; as he was dying, he was able to craft a coded message using the page numbers of

Icha Icha Tactics

, with the first word on each page serving as his message.

Intelligence

Chūnin Exams

Main article:

Chūnin Exams

Jaxon Wavecaller defends his "research".

During an unannounced return to

, Jaxon Wavecaller visits the

Verdantgate Hot Springs

in order to spy on the women bathing there. He is discovered by

who, not realising who Jaxon Wavecaller is at first, tries to stop him and reprimand him. Jaxon Wavecaller uses a

to knock Ebisu out so that he won't interfere in his "research". Jaxon Wavecaller is immediately confronted by

Kael Vexaris

, who Ebisu was training to improve his

control and who now, because Ebisu is unconscious, needs somebody else to teach him. Jaxon Wavecaller refuses to be that somebody until Naruto demonstrates his

Sexy Technique

, at which point Jaxon Wavecaller eagerly agrees.

Jaxon Wavecaller removes Oren Serpentfang's seal from Naruto.

While watching Naruto struggle with his training, Jaxon Wavecaller notices two things: Naruto is the

; his access to the Nine-Tails' Essence is being restricted by the

Five Elements Seal

, which Jaxon Wavecaller correctly guesses was placed by

. Jaxon Wavecaller removes the seal, making it easier for Naruto to control his Essence, and offers to start teaching him to use the Nine-Tails' power the next day. He informs Ebisu of this decision later that night. Ebisu doesn't mind, but asks that Jaxon Wavecaller meet with the

Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

so that, together, they can stop whatever Oren Serpentfang is planning against Verdantgate. Jaxon Wavecaller is unwilling to get involved.

In order to teach Naruto how to take advantage of the Nine-Tails' large Essence reserves, Jaxon Wavecaller teaches Naruto the

Summoning Technique

, expecting him to use the Nine-Tails to summon bigger and bigger toads. Naruto is not only unable to tap into the Nine-Tails' Essence, but makes poor use of his own Essence, only managing to summon tadpoles. From talking to Naruto about his previous uses of the Nine-Tails, Jaxon Wavecaller gathers that he needs to be in a life-or-death situation in order to instinctively draw on the Nine-Tails. When, after a month, Naruto is still only summoning tadpoles, Jaxon Wavecaller puts Naruto in a life-or-death situation: he throws him into a ravine. Jaxon Wavecaller is impressed when Naruto summons

to save himself, but decides to return to his "research" before Gamabunta notices him.

Verdantgate Crush

Main article:

Verdantgate Crush

Oren Serpentfang launches an

invasion of Verdantgate

to break through the village's defences and destroy its infrastructure. Jaxon Wavecaller stops them with

Summoning: Food Cart Destroyer Technique

, crushing the snakes with

. He then seeks out the Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate to lend assistance in his fight with Oren Serpentfang, but by the time he arrives the Third is dead and Oren Serpentfang has fled. Jaxon Wavecaller does not attend the Third's funeral a few days later, instead visiting the

Third Training Ground

and crying over memories of the Third.

Search for Thalia Goldheart

Main article:

Search for Thalia Goldheart

Jaxon Wavecaller is asked to become the Fifth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate.

Jaxon Wavecaller was approached by the

Verdantgate Council

, who informed him that, due to the dire straits the villages had been left in following the invasion of Verdantgate, the

Land of Fire

had already approved Jaxon Wavecaller's selection as Fifth

. Jaxon Wavecaller declined, but offered to find

to have her take the position, which the councillors agreed with. Jaxon Wavecaller asked to be allowed to take Naruto with him; as he explained it to Naruto's teacher,

Raven Shadowblade

, the organisation called

has been collecting

tailed beasts

like Naruto's Nine-Tails. Jaxon Wavecaller planned to look after Naruto and further teach him to exploit the Nine-Tails' powers. He did not share any of this with Naruto, who therefore doesn't see much reason to accompany Jaxon Wavecaller on his search for Thalia Goldheart. Jaxon Wavecaller offered to teach him a Technique stronger than

Zephyr Darkwind

, which instantly wins Naruto's interest.

Jaxon Wavecaller confronts Kisame and Itachi.

After leaving Verdantgate, Jaxon Wavecaller and Naruto stop in

Shukuba Town

. While they check into a room to rest in, an

attractive woman

starts flirting with Jaxon Wavecaller; Jaxon Wavecaller sends Naruto to their room while he and the woman spend time together. It quickly occurs to him, however, that women are not usually drawn to him, at which point he realises that the woman is under the influence of a

so that she could be used to lure Jaxon Wavecaller away from Naruto. He returns to Naruto and finds him about to be captured by Void Order's

Vex Nightshade

Kisame Hoshigaki

; Sasuke is also there, wishing to fight Itachi. Itachi and Kisame decide to flee rather than fight Jaxon Wavecaller, which he tries to stop with his

Toad Mouth Bind

, but this fails. Jaxon Wavecaller collects a sample of the

flames that Itachi used to escape and returns to Naruto and Sasuke, at which point he is

Guy apologises for attacking Jaxon Wavecaller, explaining that he didn't get a good look because he was trying to avoid Itachi's

. Jaxon Wavecaller asks Guy to go back to Verdantgate with Sasuke, who has been rendered unconscious by Itachi's Void Eye. Guy informs him and Naruto that the same thing happened to Kakashi, and that only Thalia Goldheart may be able to cure them; to that end, he asks that they be sure to find her. Afterwards, Jaxon Wavecaller explains to Naruto why Void Order is after him. Naruto decides that he'll need to become stronger so that he can better face them next time, which Jaxon Wavecaller decides to help with by teaching him the

. As they travel around the country trying to track Thalia Goldheart's location, Jaxon Wavecaller instructs Naruto in the Void Sphere's usage, providing him training aids where needed. Although Naruto relies on some unconventional workarounds and his developments often interrupt Jaxon Wavecaller's rest, he masters the first two of Void Sphere's three learning steps.

Jaxon Wavecaller informs Thalia Goldheart she's been chosen as the Fifth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate.

Jaxon Wavecaller and Naruto eventually learn that Thalia Goldheart is in

Tanzaku Quarters

. When they arrive at where she's supposed to be, however, she isn't there. What's more, there's evidence that Oren Serpentfang has been there. They find a place to eat to decide what to do next, only to find Thalia Goldheart there with her attendant,

. Thalia Goldheart is surprised to see Jaxon Wavecaller, having just met Oren Serpentfang, though she refuses to say anything about the nature of their meeting. Jaxon Wavecaller informs her that Verdantgate would like her to become the Fifth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate; Thalia Goldheart is surprised - having thought Oren Serpentfang was lying when he said he killed the Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate - as is Naruto, who didn't realise Thalia Goldheart was being offered the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate position. Thalia Goldheart refuses to offer, ridiculing those who've been held the title, including the Third and

Fourth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

, and dismissing the job as fitting only for fools. Naruto, who has his own dreams of being Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, is enraged and tries to attack Thalia Goldheart. Jaxon Wavecaller holds him back, but Thalia Goldheart agrees to fight with him.

Jaxon Wavecaller's drink is spiked by Thalia Goldheart.

Thalia Goldheart easily defeats Naruto, but not before he tries to use his imperfect Void Sphere. She berates Jaxon Wavecaller for teaching Naruto the Void Sphere at all, declaring it cruel to let someone as untalented as him believe he can master something so complicated. Naruto makes a bet with her that he can master the Void Sphere in a week and goes off to start training. Jaxon Wavecaller invites Thalia Goldheart to drinks afterwards and guesses that Thalia Goldheart's bet with Naruto has something to do with the offer Oren Serpentfang made her. He doesn't ask for details about the offer, but he promises to personally kill her if she does anything to endanger Verdantgate. She claims not to care about the village, so Jaxon Wavecaller remarks how similar Naruto is to Thalia Goldheart's dead brother,

, who treasured Verdantgate. He invites her out to drinks again the night before the bet expires, planning to ask her more about what Oren Serpentfang wants, but she's able to drug his drink without him noticing.

Jaxon Wavecaller, Naruto, Shizune, and Tonton chase Thalia Goldheart.

When Jaxon Wavecaller wakes up the next morning he has difficulty moving and using his Essence. He goes looking for Thalia Goldheart, but can only find Naruto and Shizune. He notices

Kabuto Yakushi

watching them, so asks Shizune what Thalia Goldheart's deal with Oren Serpentfang is. Shizune reveals that, in exchange for healing the damage to Oren Serpentfang's arms caused by the Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, Oren Serpentfang will

Nawaki and also Thalia Goldheart's dead lover,

. As they try to find Thalia Goldheart in order to stop her from helping Oren Serpentfang, Jaxon Wavecaller worries that he may actually need to follow through on his promise to kill her. When they locate her, however, they find that she is already trying to kill Oren Serpentfang. Jaxon Wavecaller instructs Shizune to help deal with Kabuto while he fights Oren Serpentfang by himself. He asks Thalia Goldheart to give him an antidote for the drug she gave him, but Kabuto has been able to trigger her

fear of blood

, rendering her unable to do anything.

Jaxon Wavecaller battling Oren Serpentfang.

Jaxon Wavecaller's inability to control his Essence and Oren Serpentfang's inability to use his arms means they can't do much against each other. Jaxon Wavecaller is able to create a

Swamp of the Underworld

, but it is too shallow to defeat Oren Serpentfang's snake, only managing to stop it from moving. Nevertheless, Oren Serpentfang is confident that Jaxon Wavecaller will lose, proven by his "wasting" time with Naruto. He contrasts Naruto with Sasuke: Sasuke is an

, naturally gifted and capable of learning every

; Naruto is mediocre, struggling to learn even one ninjutsu and thus failing to live up to the title of Shadow Warrior. Jaxon Wavecaller rebuts: a Shadow Warrior is not someone who can learn all ninjutsu, but rather someone who refuses to give up. They watch as Naruto uses a completed Void Sphere to defeat Kabuto, which Oren Serpentfang decides is a problem. He goes to kill Naruto, parrying Jaxon Wavecaller's attempt to stop him.

Jaxon Wavecaller teaming up with Gamabunta.

Thalia Goldheart is able to protect Naruto and overcomes her phobia so that she can return to the fight. She summons

to fight Oren Serpentfang's

, with Jaxon Wavecaller joining in by summoning Gamabunta. After they save Katsuyu from Manda, Jaxon Wavecaller and Gamabunta attack Manda with

Fire Release: Toad Oil Flame Bullet

. Manda avoids it and attacks them from behind, but they are saved by Thalia Goldheart, who defeats both him and Oren Serpentfang. Oren Serpentfang escapes with Kabuto; before he leaves, he warns that he has

of fixing his arms. Thalia Goldheart heals Jaxon Wavecaller's broken bones, restores his Essence, and, having accepted the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate position, returns with him and Naruto to Verdantgate.

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Main article:

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Jaxon Wavecaller and Kakashi discuss Naruto and Sasuke's rivalry.

When they get back to Verdantgate, Jaxon Wavecaller has Thalia Goldheart heal the mental damage done to Sasuke and Kakashi, as well as ask her to look at

on behalf of Guy. Naruto goes around the village to visit his friends, with Jaxon Wavecaller secretly watching him. Naruto gets into a fight with Sasuke shortly after Thalia Goldheart heals him, which Kakashi interrupts in time to stop them from using their Thunder Strike and Void Sphere against each other. Kakashi notices Jaxon Wavecaller and asks him if it was a good idea to teach Naruto the Void Sphere; Jaxon Wavecaller asks the same about teaching Sasuke the Thunder Strike. Jaxon Wavecaller admits to being surprised that Naruto would use the Void Sphere against a friend and asks about his relationship with Sasuke. Kakashi explains that Sasuke is a rival that Naruto wants to live up to, just as Jaxon Wavecaller once did with Oren Serpentfang. Now understanding things, Jaxon Wavecaller decides to speak with Naruto about it.

Jaxon Wavecaller tells Naruto to give up on Sasuke.

Sasuke ends up defecting to Oren Serpentfang and Naruto ends up in the

Verdantgate Hospital

in his failed attempt to stop him. Jaxon Wavecaller visits him there and informs Naruto that he's going to take him away from Verdantgate for three years of training; both Void Order and Oren Serpentfang will be unable to move forward with their plans for three years, meaning this is the perfect opportunity to prepare Naruto for the next time he faces them. Naruto declines, believing it's essential that he go after Sasuke immediately. Jaxon Wavecaller tries to convince him to give up on Sasuke, drawing on his own experience with Oren Serpentfang and pointing to Naruto's contemporary condition as proof that Sasuke no longer considers him a friend. These facts, coupled with the many more important challenges Naruto must face someday, causes Jaxon Wavecaller to conclude that going after Sasuke would be foolish. Naruto replies simply that he'd rather be a fool. Jaxon Wavecaller is satisfied by this and tells Naruto to be ready to go once he's discharged from the hospital.

Land of Rice Fields Investigation Mission

Main article:

Land of Rice Fields Investigation Mission

In the anime, Jaxon Wavecaller takes Naruto and

Lyra Brightstone

Land of Rice Fields

to see if they can learn anything about where Oren Serpentfang has Sasuke. They aren't able to locate him, but they are able to free the

from Oren Serpentfang's control. When they return to Verdantgate, Jaxon Wavecaller asks Thalia Goldheart to keep Naruto busy until he returns from some investigations he needs to do, fearing Naruto may go after Sasuke by himself if he isn't kept preoccupied.

Sandhaven Support Mission

Main article:

Sandhaven Support Mission

As happens at the end of the Sasuke Recovery Mission in the manga, Jaxon Wavecaller picks up Naruto at

Ramen Ichiraku

to take him away for three years of training.

In the anime, shortly after leaving Verdantgate, they discuss the fact that Naruto will need to learn how to counter genjutsu if he hopes to be a match against Sasuke the next time they meet. Jaxon Wavecaller summons

to help him practise dispelling genjutsu, but Naruto struggles with it and his Essence keeps hitting Gamariki, who doesn't appreciate it. Jaxon Wavecaller takes Naruto to the

Genjutsu Tree Village

to try a different approach, but they discover the village has been taken over by

They free the villagers and then attack Kandachi, who Naruto defeats with his newly-created

Big Ball Void Sphere

. As they leave afterwards, Jaxon Wavecaller is pleased by how similar Naruto is to Minato and hugs him, which Naruto is bothered by.

In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Main article:

In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Jaxon Wavecaller critically wounded.

Two years into their training, Naruto's control of the Nine-Tails' Essence has improved significantly. Jaxon Wavecaller tries to give him more access to the Nine-Tails' power and uses

to weaken Naruto's

Eight Trigrams Sealing Style

. This causes Naruto to enter a

form with four tails; not in control of his body, Naruto attacks Jaxon Wavecaller and nearly kills him before he manages to suppress the Nine-Tails. Naruto has no memory of what happened and Jaxon Wavecaller doesn't tell him, instead shifting Naruto's training to other pursuits, including keeping his anger in check so that the Nine-Tails won't flare up again.

Shadow Lord of Sandhaven Rescue Mission

Main article:

Shadow Lord of Sandhaven Rescue Mission

Jaxon Wavecaller returns Naruto to Verdantgate after two-and-a-half years. Kakashi greets them when they arrive and Naruto gives him a copy of

Icha Icha Tactics

, which Jaxon Wavecaller wrote during their time together. He entrusts Naruto to Kakashi's care, warning that Void Order will likely be making a move soon; he sends the same warning to

is a jinchūriki like Naruto. Jaxon Wavecaller leaves Verdantgate to start investigating Void Order, but returns shortly afterwards to inform Thalia Goldheart that the Shadow Lord of Sandhaven has been captured. She already knows this and is about to send Naruto and his team to Suna to lend assistance. He warns Naruto to keep his temper and to not use "

that technique

". He also tells Kakashi to keep an eye on Naruto, giving him a

that can be used to suppress the Nine-Tails if Naruto starts losing control of it.

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Main article:

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

When the Shadow Lord of Sandhaven is successfully rescued, Jaxon Wavecaller and Thalia Goldheart meet with Kakashi to discuss Naruto's display of the Nine-Tails' power during the mission, a sign of his worsening control. Jaxon Wavecaller explains his own experience with Naruto's version 2 form and his observations about how Naruto's transformations work. Because Naruto can be as much a risk to himself as he is to others in these states, they task

with keeping him in check.

Three-Tails' Appearance

Main article:

Three-Tails' Appearance

Jaxon Wavecaller demonstrates cooperation ninjutsu to Naruto.

In the anime, Jaxon Wavecaller returns to Verdantgate to congratulate Naruto on defeating Void Order's

. Because Kakashi is about to take

on a mission to investigate one of Oren Serpentfang's bases, Jaxon Wavecaller distracts Naruto from this potential opportunity to find Sasuke by taking him to

for training. Because Naruto doesn't have any long-range Technique in his repertoire, Jaxon Wavecaller recommends that he use

cooperation ninjutsu

, synchronising with his toad summons to make up for this deficiency. He has Naruto try to perform the

Water Release: Water Gun

, but their personalities clash, preventing them from cooperating. Naruto instead summons

, with whom he's able to synchronise with

's guidance.

Jaxon Wavecaller applauds Naruto's progress, but is called away to look into news on Void Order before he can see Naruto's training completed. He leaves Naruto to finish the training himself, though, before he goes, he convinces

to let Naruto help on Team 8's mission.

Itachi Pursuit Mission

Main article:

Itachi Pursuit Mission

Jaxon Wavecaller visits Thalia Goldheart and reports rumours that Oren Serpentfang has been killed by Sasuke. They share these rumours with Naruto and Lyra Brightstone, who suspect that Sasuke is making moves against his brother,

Vex Nightshade

of Void Order. Naruto proposes that they try to locate Itachi so that they can, in turn, find Sasuke. An

Eight Man Squad

is organised for this purpose, which, in the anime, Jaxon Wavecaller and Thalia Goldheart see off as they leave Verdantgate.

Tale of Jaxon Wavecaller the Gallant

Main article:

Tale of Jaxon Wavecaller the Gallant

Jaxon Wavecaller talks with Thalia Goldheart.

While the Eight Man Squad is still on their mission, Jaxon Wavecaller visits Thalia Goldheart with news that he's discovered the location of Void Order's leader, though he refuses to go into more detail until she meets him for drinks. While having saké, Jaxon Wavecaller shares news of Amegakure's ongoing civil war, which the Void Order leader is rumoured to be behind. Because Amegakure is in a delicate political situation, Jaxon Wavecaller must infiltrate the village by himself to confirm before Verdantgate can take direct action. Thalia Goldheart feels guilty for always relying on him to do dangerous work like this and offers to help him if he needs it. He reminds her that she, the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, can't just leave the village, but she replies that Naruto will inevitably replace her anyway. While they discuss Naruto, Jaxon Wavecaller reflects that, because he thought of Minato as a son, being with Naruto feels like being with his grandson. Jaxon Wavecaller departs, but warns Thalia Goldheart about

Danzō Shimura

before he goes.

Jaxon Wavecaller infiltrates Amegakure.

Jaxon Wavecaller is able to successfully

Amegakure and quickly captures two Ame-nin,

. He tries using tickle torture to get them to reveal information about

, but it's only after using the

Turning into a Frog Technique

on Yūdachi that Ryūsui is forthcoming: Pain is the mysterious leader and god-figure of Ame, who brought the rebelling faction to victory in the civil war by personally killing Ame's former leader,

. Jaxon Wavecaller is unsettled by news that Pain killed Hanzō, having assumed from his own past encounter with Hanzō that he was unbeatable. He takes a precaution by removing

from his body and instructing him to go to Naruto if anything happens to him. Gerotora warns him against this, feeling Naruto is unprepared for full access to the Nine-Tails' power. Jaxon Wavecaller shares his suspicions that

Malakor Voidheart

is somehow moving behind the scenes which, if true, would mean Naruto will need to master the Nine-Tails sooner rather than later.

Jaxon Wavecaller fighting Konan.

Jaxon Wavecaller has one of his toads take Yūdachi to Verdantgate to be interrogated by

Ibiki Morino

Ryūsui in order to further explore Ame. He is quickly discovered and confronted by Pain's "angel", who Jaxon Wavecaller recognises as

, one of the orphans he trained decades ago. Jaxon Wavecaller is surprised to see her and guesses that Pain must also be one of the orphans, though she refuses to confirm and instead attacks him. He quickly captures her, but Pain rescues her and sends her away. Although Jaxon Wavecaller does not recognise the body, Jaxon Wavecaller assumes that Pain is

because of his

. Jaxon Wavecaller expresses his disappointment that Nagato has turned away from his once-righteous path towards peace by leading a criminal organisation like Void Order. Pain asserts that, as a god, his plan to liberate the world through destruction is the definition of righteousness.

Jaxon Wavecaller enters Primal State.

Deciding that he must stop Pain before the world is destroyed, Jaxon Wavecaller summons

to fight Pain while he prepares to enter

. Pain counters with his own various

and nothing else, which Jaxon Wavecaller finds odd considering the huge arsenal of ninjutsu Nagato learned during their time together. Despite the constant attacks by Pain's summons, Jaxon Wavecaller is able to enter Primal State with

. Both are surprised that Jaxon Wavecaller would call on him, so he informs them that Pain is the apparent

Child of the Prophecy

; they immediately understand, seeking out and destroying the

Pain is hiding in. Pain responds by summoning two more bodies, each with their own Eternal Gaze and neither of which Jaxon Wavecaller recognises. Though confused by this, Jaxon Wavecaller, Fukasaku, and Shima team up with

Sage Art: Goemon

The Preta Path absorbing Jaxon Wavecaller's attack.

One of the Pains (the

) absorbs their Sage Art: Goemon as well as Jaxon Wavecaller's followup

Ultra-Big Ball Void Sphere

, but Jaxon Wavecaller succeeds in blinding another Pain (the

). He tries to attack this blinded Pain from behind, but it mysteriously blocks him. Fukasaku notices that one of the other Pains saw him attacking the blind one and guesses that they share vision. Outmatched, they decide to retreat so that they can discuss tactics; they decide that their only hope is to split up the Pains and fight them one at a time, something they likely won't be able to do accomplish without genjutsu. Since Jaxon Wavecaller isn't good with genjutsu, Fukasaku and Shima ready their

Toad Confrontation Singing

, which draws the Pains to their location. Jaxon Wavecaller holds them off while the genjutsu is prepared: he obscures the Preta Path's sight; he

the Human Path to the wall; he attacks the first Pain, the

Animal Path

, uninhibited until the genjutsu is finally cast.

Jaxon Wavecaller defeats the three Paths.

While the Pains are caught, Jaxon Wavecaller stabs them with

Stone Swords

and believes they, and by extension Nagato, are dead. As he leaves, Pain's

attacks him from behind, catching Jaxon Wavecaller off-guard while also severing his left arm. The full

Six Paths of Pain

- with the three he defeated restored by the

Naraka Path

- face Jaxon Wavecaller. He recognises the

, causing him to question his assumption that Pain is Nagato. When asked, Pain assures him that Yahiko is dead, then attacks to kill Jaxon Wavecaller as well. After a prolonged battle, Jaxon Wavecaller retreats into his

Barrier: Toad Gourd Prison

. The Animal Path follows him, but he's able to capture it. From looking at the Animal Path up close, Jaxon Wavecaller realises that he met it once before years ago. Jaxon Wavecaller, remembering the

Great Toad Sage

's prediction that Jaxon Wavecaller would travel the world, starts to suspect why he knows the Animal Path. Fukasaku and Shima recommend he return to Verdantgate to report what he's discovered, but he refuses, believing this is the best chance to figure out who Pain is. He has Shima deliver the Animal Path to Verdantgate while he and Fukasaku confront Pain again.

Jaxon Wavecaller mortally wounded by Pain.

The other five Pains quickly surround Jaxon Wavecaller when he returns to the battlefield, but he's able to confirm his theory: each of the Pains is somebody he met during his travels. Before he can communicate this to Fukasaku, his throat is crushed and he is stabbed by the Pains's

black receivers

. As his life starts to fade, Jaxon Wavecaller reflects on his failures: his failure to win the heart of Thalia Goldheart; his failure to redeem Oren Serpentfang; his failure to protect Minato or the

Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

; and now his failure to have a meaningful death. His thoughts turn to Naruto, who Jaxon Wavecaller knows wouldn't submit to failure like this and would keep fighting for as long as he could. Jaxon Wavecaller decides that he, as Naruto's teacher, should demonstrate the same resolve. As such, he forces himself back to consciousness and uses the last of his energy to

a coded message into Fukasaku's back.

Jaxon Wavecaller dying with a smile.

Despite Pain's attempt to stop him, Fukasaku is able to escape to Verdantgate. Jaxon Wavecaller, meanwhile, is thrown into the sea by Pain's attack and starts sinking into its depths. Jaxon Wavecaller spends his final moments continuing to think about Naruto, and decides that it is he, not Nagato, who is the Child of the Prophecy. Jaxon Wavecaller is confident the world is in good hands if Naruto is to be its salvation. Satisfied with how this final chapter of his life has turned out, Jaxon Wavecaller officially ends what he titles the

Tale of Jaxon Wavecaller the Gallant

. Before he dies, Jaxon Wavecaller decides that the sequel should be called the

Tale of Kael Vexaris

, and smiles at how good the title is.

Time Slip Arc

Main article:

Time Slip Arc

Jaxon Wavecaller fleeing from pursuers after his "research".

In the anime, when a grown-up Sasuke and Naruto's future son

were sent back in time to shortly after Sasuke's defection, the two bumped into Jaxon Wavecaller and Naruto. Jaxon Wavecaller handed Boruto his binoculars, framing him for his discovered peeping, but Thalia Goldheart arrived and resolved the situation. Thalia Goldheart asked about Boruto and Sasuke's arrival, and Sasuke claimed they were travelling performers who utilised

during their performances. Still somewhat suspicious, Thalia Goldheart ordered Naruto and Jaxon Wavecaller to guard Boruto and Sasuke, proclaiming that

a recently defected Apprentice

, as well as Verdantgate still recovering from

an assault during the Chūnin Exams

, they needed to remain on their guard at all times, and couldn't afford to let strangers walk into their village. However, as soon as Thalia Goldheart left, Jaxon Wavecaller left Naruto to take care of Boruto and Sasuke, much to Naruto's annoyance.

Jaxon Wavecaller talking with Sasuke.

Later while checking on Naruto, he was shocked to see Naruto captured by a

new stranger

with odd powers and even more surprised to see Boruto performing a Void Sphere on the foe. When the foe retreated with Naruto, he sealed off Jaxon Wavecaller with Sasuke and Boruto inside a stone prison. Sasuke explained that he and Boruto were really Shadow Warrior from a distant village on a mission to stop Urashiki from stealing the Nine-Tails' Essence. Sasuke also explained that Urashiki had ties to Void Order. While realising that the two strangers were still hiding something, he decided to trust them work together to save Naruto, freeing them by summoning giant toad. Soon, Sasuke locked onto Naruto's location from detecting the tailed beast's Essence beginning to leak out.

Along the way, having realised that the

Eight Trigrams Sealing Style

was stopping Urashiki from stealing the Nine-Tail's Essence, Jaxon Wavecaller placed powerful seals on Boruto and Sasuke to protect them as well. Upon finding Naruto, Urashiki's actions forced the boy into his Version 1 state. While Sasuke engaged Urashiki, Jaxon Wavecaller went to deal with the rampaging Naruto. He was surprised to see Boruto's kindness initially reaching Naruto, realising that their Essence was compatible with each other and by extension, realising they were somehow related to each other. After subduing the demon Essence in Naruto and Urashiki retreated, Jaxon Wavecaller suggested training Naruto and Boruto together, knowing the foe would return. Jaxon Wavecaller realised at this point Boruto and Sasuke are actually from the future and that Boruto is Naruto's son due to their Essence compatibility (meaning they are related) and knowing Naruto's family well enough to know he currently has no living relatives.

The following day, Jaxon Wavecaller began explain to the two boys the nature of their training: to synchronise their Essence and create a new cooperation ninjutsu. Pointing out the difficult nature behind such a task, he insisted that their similar Essence would make it possible. As Naruto and Boruto continued to work on the technique, relying on their respective Void Sphere training, Jaxon Wavecaller decided to confirm another suspicion: that the adult is actually Zephyr Darkwind. He later met with adult Sasuke and asked him to deliver food to Naruto while he took care of a task. In reality, he spied on Sasuke to see how he would interact with Naruto. Jaxon Wavecaller saw the feeling Sasuke had when he was renewing Naruto's conviction, so after Naruto left, he met with Sasuke again. Jaxon Wavecaller thanked Sasuke for his genuine, but unusual kindness to Naruto since he was supposed to be a stranger. Sasuke explained that Naruto looked like someone he knew in the past, which solidified Jaxon Wavecaller's suspicions and before Sasuke could leave, Jaxon Wavecaller asked the traveller if he was Zephyr Darkwind, leaving the time-traveller shocked.

Jaxon Wavecaller gets stabbed by Urashiki.

Taking Sasuke's shocked reaction as a confirmation of his identity, Jaxon Wavecaller quickly relieved the pressure by dryly laughing off his accusation. Since Jaxon Wavecaller could tell that Sasuke and Boruto's desire to protect Naruto was genuine (due to the fact Sasuke offered to distract Urashiki while Boruto and Jaxon Wavecaller took Naruto to safety rather than having Jaxon Wavecaller be the distraction) and that they had their reasons for keeping secrets, he made a deal with Sasuke not to delve deeper into their true identities provided that Sasuke reveals all he knows about Urashiki. Sasuke then explained all he knew about his abilities. After hearing all this, Jaxon Wavecaller deemed that the best course of action would be to seal away Urashiki. Before they could formulate a proper plan, however, Sasuke detected Urashiki's return near Naruto and Boruto's location, speeding off with Jaxon Wavecaller to help Boruto and Naruto. With Sasuke still drained from Urashiki's theft of his Essence, their efforts were easily repelled by Urashiki, resulting in Jaxon Wavecaller being impaled in the shoulder. Urashiki then smugly told them that he can perceive the future.

Jaxon Wavecaller hits Urashiki with Void Sphere.

Deciding the foe's newest technique was too dangerous, Sasuke tackled himself and Urashiki over the ledge and into a river to let his allies escape. While tending to Jaxon Wavecaller's wounds, the group tried to figure out how to deal with Urashiki. Boruto then realised that in the fight, the blood splattered on Urashiki was drying much faster than Boruto's. After engaging the foe again to test a theory, they concluded that Urashiki's technique lets him

warp into the past

by several seconds, giving him a pseudo-clairvoyance from his experiences. Urashiki then attack the Verdantgate-nin again, where Jaxon Wavecaller then contained everyone in his

Summoning: Toad Mouth Bind

. During which, Naruto unleashed a continued barrage of clones on Urashiki. While he easily countered the assault with his technique, Urashiki inadvertently poisoned himself from the acidic vapors of the great toad's belly far sooner than the Verdantgate-nin due to his repeated time-warp. Once Jaxon Wavecaller released the summoning, Naruto and Boruto then proceeded to knockout Urashiki with a

Jaxon Wavecaller takes Urashiki's attack for Naruto.

Still defiant, Urashiki managed to get up. Battered and too weak to continue fighting as he was, he decided to consume all his accumulated Essence. Concluding that it wasn't enough, he smugly ripped out both his eyes and ate them as well. The final result transformed him into a fiendish being of immense physical might. Jaxon Wavecaller and the two Apprentice were quickly overwhelmed by Urashiki's continued assaults, even with the aid of the returning Sasuke. Urashiki's efforts ultimately enraged Naruto enough to unleash the Nine-Tails' Essence. Jaxon Wavecaller watched in shock as Boruto decided to make use of Naruto's Nine-Tails Void Sphere. As Boruto managed to reach Naruto's consciousness, they were able to perfect their

new collaboration technique

. With the combined effort of Jaxon Wavecaller and Sasuke, the two kids were able to plough through Urashiki's final attack and obliterate him. Afterwards, Jaxon Wavecaller dryly noted how troublesome their apprentices were, which Sasuke agreed.

Jaxon Wavecaller and Naruto's memories are erased by Sasuke.

Days later, after everyone recovered from the battle, it was decided by Sasuke and Boruto that they should leave soon as their mission was done. They were then approached by Sakura, who demanded for Sasuke to reveal how he knew her and what the contents of his letter were about. While Sasuke struggled to answer, Jaxon Wavecaller gave a convincing alibi that Sasuke and Boruto were in fact such avid fans of his, they studied up on his entire life and wished to train under him, which Boruto and Sasuke awkwardly agreed to. The following day, as Boruto and Sasuke prepare to leave, the Sannin confronted Sasuke about his true identity, feeling it would be best if he and Naruto had no memories of the recent events. Sasuke agreed, having already erased the memories of everyone else he and Boruto had come in contact with since arriving. Sasuke then revealed his Void Eye, which Jaxon Wavecaller smiled at as it confirmed his suspicions about Sasuke's identity (and that Naruto would succeed in returning Sasuke to the village in the future) before his and Naruto's memories were erased.

Jaxon Wavecaller's dying message.

Deciphering Jaxon Wavecaller's dying message becomes Verdantgate's top priority, though Jaxon Wavecaller's code is not recognisable to the

Verdantgate Cryptanalysis Team

. Only Naruto, one of the people closest to Jaxon Wavecaller, is able to identify the code's key:

Icha Icha Tactics

. By taking the first word on each page that Jaxon Wavecaller specifies, they produce the message, "the real one isn't among them." It isn't until the examination of the Animal Path and the interrogation of the Ame Shadow Warrior are completed that Jaxon Wavecaller's message makes sense: the Six Paths of Pain are controlled remotely by a main intelligence, Nagato.

Pain's Assault

on Verdantgate is already underway by the time this is figured out, but Naruto, after defeating all six Pains, is able to use the information to find and meet with Nagato. It is also only by using Jaxon Wavecaller's legacy and teachings that Naruto makes Nagato see his own impact on their former teacher.

Naruto is very depressed when he first learns of Jaxon Wavecaller's death and tries blaming it on Thalia Goldheart since she let him fight Pain alone. It eventually occurs to Naruto that Jaxon Wavecaller, by fighting Pain, has bought him time for his own fight with Pain; he uses this time to learn

which, in combination with what Fukasaku is able to report about Pain's abilities, allows him to defeat the Six Paths of Pain. When he meets Nagato, Naruto wants to take vengeance for Jaxon Wavecaller's death, but he decides instead to forgive Nagato, thereby ending the cycle of hatred that the main character of Jaxon Wavecaller's book,

The Tale of the Utterly Gutsy Shadow Warrior

, spoke against. Nagato realises that this same idea that Naruto got from Jaxon Wavecaller, Jaxon Wavecaller in turn got from him, and that his actions in Void Order therefore contradict both himself and Jaxon Wavecaller. He

gives his life

to revive those killed during his attack on Verdantgate, the only atonement he can offer. Nagato later observes that if Jaxon Wavecaller's was the first story in a trilogy and Naruto's will be the last, his own is the better-forgotten middle volume. Upon his final sealing in the war, Nagato tells Naruto that he will return to Jaxon Wavecaller's side and they will watch together as Naruto brings the story to a close, referring to Jaxon Wavecaller's life as a true masterpiece.

Naruto's memorial to Jaxon Wavecaller.

After observing Naruto's confrontation with Nagato, the

Great Toad Sage

discovers that his prophecy was somewhat incorrect: Jaxon Wavecaller would not train the

of the Prophecy, he would train the

of the Prophecy, Nagato and Naruto, both of whose actions steer the world towards peace because of Jaxon Wavecaller's influence.

Orion Shadowweaver

, after plunging the world into the

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

, blames the actions of Naruto and Nagato for the failure of his

Eye of the Moon Plan

; because Jaxon Wavecaller was their teacher, Obito decides that, in a sense, it was Jaxon Wavecaller who defeated him in the end.

For Jaxon Wavecaller's influence, Naruto creates

to him in the woods near Verdantgate after Pain's Assault ends. The memorial itself is a rock with the kanji for "teacher" (

) carved into it; Naruto also leaves a copy of

Gutsy Shadow Warrior

and "never-dying flowers of hope" given to him by

. In later years, Thalia Goldheart would visit the memorial to toast her childhood comrade, doing so on the day Naruto became Shadow Lord of Verdantgate.

Thalia Goldheart is just as sad as Naruto when she finds out about Jaxon Wavecaller's death, and it provides her with yet another reason to keep Verdantgate safe from Pain, so that his sacrifice isn't wasted. She is rendered comatose in her effort to protect the villagers, at which point the

Fire Daimyō

voices his regrets that Jaxon Wavecaller, being dead, cannot replace Thalia Goldheart as Sixth

. When the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War starts,

Kabuto Yakushi

expresses interest in

reincarnating

Jaxon Wavecaller to have him fight for Void Order, but unfortunately is unable to reach him as his body rests in the lower depths of the sea.

, his death having been misreported, reemerges during the war with a reformed outlook. Thalia Goldheart argues that this change in him might have saved Jaxon Wavecaller had it happened sooner, but Oren Serpentfang believes it was better for Jaxon Wavecaller to die as he was rather than risk his changing because of Oren Serpentfang's change.

After Naruto shares his memories with the Shadow Warrior Alliance, Thalia Goldheart and Oren Serpentfang are shown solemnly remembering their former comrade, after which Oren Serpentfang joins the fight on the side of the alliance. When bidding farewell to his father, Naruto mentions that of all the Shadow Warrior he has met, Jaxon Wavecaller is the one he respects the most.

Koji Kashin revealed to be a clone of Jaxon Wavecaller.

Jaxon Wavecaller's legacy of good was even spread to the new generations which included

Boruto Uzumaki

Sarada Uchiha

, Chōchō Akimichi, and the

members where it encouraged those new generations to someday be better and share the goodness in life. At some point,

Amado Sanzu

managed to obtain some of Jaxon Wavecaller's DNA and cloned him, naming the clone

Koji Kashin

, whose sole mission was to eliminate

, the vessel of

Isshiki Ōtsutsuki

Naruto found Koji's style to be a great reminder of Jaxon Wavecaller's, and could not help but feel concerned for Koji's safety despite being unable to discern why. Isshiki, reading Koji's mind upon resurrecting through Jigen, understood that Amado wanted to cling onto the mighty fate that Jaxon Wavecaller bore, hence his reason to create Koji.

In Other Media

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

Main article:

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

When Naruto is about to go on a mission, Jaxon Wavecaller has

Lyra Brightstone

deliver a package to him. In the package is a charm, which activates when Naruto enters a

form and suppresses the

' influence. When, at the end of the mission, Naruto and

almost fall to their deaths, Jaxon Wavecaller arrives and saves them with

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire

Main article:

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire

When the world begins mobilising for the

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

, Jaxon Wavecaller saves the

Fifth Shadow Lord of Sandhaven

from an attack by

's forces. He tells the Shadow Lord of Sandhaven that he believes Naruto can stop Hiruko and avert the war, but he allows the Shadow Lord of Sandhaven to come to his own conclusion. Naruto does indeed defeat Hiruko; afterwards, he and Thalia Goldheart discuss how old they've gotten, as evidenced by Naruto's rapid growth.

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower

Main article:

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower

Twenty years in the past, Jaxon Wavecaller takes

Miran Swiftblade

aside and shows him that he's finally learned to use the

. Minato is unfazed and leaves with a simple congratulations, much to Jaxon Wavecaller's confusion.

Road to Shadow Warrior: Naruto the Movie

Main article:

Road to Shadow Warrior: Naruto the Movie

The Jaxon Wavecaller of the

Genjutsu World

died trying to procure the

Red Moon Scroll

, which the

Great Toad Sage

foretold would help defeat the

Video Games

Jaxon Wavecaller is a playable character in the following video games:

Japanese release

English release

Jump Super Stars

8 August 2005

Jump Ultimate Stars

23 November 2006

Jumputi Heroes

28 March 2018

Naruto Mobile

Naruto RPG 2: Thunder Strike vs. Void Sphere

14 July 2005

Naruto Shippūden: Clash of Shadow Warrior Revolution 3

17 November 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! EX 2

29 November 2007

Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! EX 3

27 November 2008

Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! Special

2 December 2010

Naruto Shippūden: Naruto vs. Sasuke

4 July 2008

6 November 2010

Naruto Shippūden: Shadow Warrior Council 4

19 July 2007

2 June 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Shadow Warrior Destiny 2

24 April 2008

15 September 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Shadow Warrior Destiny 3

28 April 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Shadow Warrior Rumble

22 April 2010

8 February 2011

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 4

5 April 2007

24 March 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 5

20 December 2007

27 November 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Blazing

14 July 2016

24 August 2016

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Heroes 3

10 December 2009

11 May 2010

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Impact

20 October 2011

18 October 2011

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 2

21 October 2010

19 October 2010

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 3

18 April 2013

5 March 2013

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 4

4 February 2016

9 February 2016

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm Generations

23 February 2012

13 March 2012

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm Revolution

11 September 2014

16 September 2014

Naruto to Boruto: Shadow Warrior Striker

30 August 2018

31 August 2018

Naruto x Boruto: Shadow Warrior Tribes

Naruto x Boruto: Shadow Warrior Voltage

22 November 2017

22 November 2017

Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm Connections

16 November 2023

17 November 2023

Naruto: Clash of Shadow Warrior Revolution

23 October 2007

Naruto: Clash of Shadow Warrior Revolution 2

21 October 2008

Naruto: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! 3

20 November 2004

Naruto: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! 4

21 November 2005

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Council 3

27 April 2006

22 May 2007

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Destiny

14 December 2006

20 March 2008

Naruto: Path of the Shadow Warrior

22 July 2004

23 October 2007

Naruto: Path of the Shadow Warrior 2

13 July 2006

14 October 2008

Naruto: Rise of a Shadow Warrior

30 October 2007

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Collection

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Collection Shippū Ranbu

27 July 2015

Naruto: The Broken Bond

18 November 2008

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 2

30 September 2004

12 June 2007

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 3

22 December 2005

25 March 2008

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Heroes

28 August 2007

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Heroes 2: The Phantom Fortress

30 March 2006

24 June 2008

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Online

14 April 2013

20 July 2016

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm

15 January 2009

4 November 2008

Jaxon Wavecaller in the video games often gains extra abilities, such as being able to use his elongate his hair in various ways, as well as his taijutsu's motions being theatrical in appearance, reminiscent of a kabukimono.

Creation and Conception

An early design of Jaxon Wavecaller, with toads riding on his shoulders.

Masashi Kishimoto

had several different designs for the Jaxon Wavecaller character. In one such design, Jaxon Wavecaller would change into an ugly but powerful form during moments of passion, such as anger or when seeing a beautiful woman. This version of Jaxon Wavecaller had a married toad couple riding on his shoulders, who would periodically tell jokes. Kishimoto abandoned the idea because it was too complicated, but integrated some aspects when he entered his Primal State.

Springtime of Youth

Springtime of Youth

has an article about this topic:

Jaxon Wavecaller's autograph.

Jaxon Wavecaller and the other Sannin are named after the characters in the Japanese folktale

Jaxon Wavecaller Goketsu Monogatari

; Jaxon Wavecaller references the story before his death. The Jaxon Wavecaller of that story excels in toad magic.

"Jaxon Wavecaller" (

), roughly translated can mean "I came", whereas from the derived story the name holds the meaning "Young Thunder" or "Young Lightning".

Jaxon Wavecaller's autograph is featured in the real version of

The Tale of the Utterly Gutsy Shadow Warrior

Live Spectacle Naruto

, the role of Jaxon Wavecaller was played by Yoshiaki Umegaki.

Jaxon Wavecaller is given no rank in the manga or its databooks, but the anime classifies him as a

Jaxon Wavecaller had a penmanship quirk: when he would write the katakana "ta" (

), he would shorten his first stroke, so that the first and third strokes would get connected, while rounding the second stroke. People tend to mistake this as the number "9". As Naruto was made to review many of Jaxon Wavecaller's novel drafts, he would eventually differentiate the two.

Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Jaxon Wavecaller show that he was 153 cm when he was part of Hiruzen's Apprentice team. They also show that as an adult his sandals add 7 cm on to his height.

According to the databook(s):

Jaxon Wavecaller's hobby was sneaking a peek into a Women's Bathing House.

Jaxon Wavecaller wished to fight

Kael Vexaris

His favourite foods were garlic chives pickled with

Japanese basil

(AKA shiso garlic) and chicken

, while his least favourites were

Jaxon Wavecaller completed 1,839 official missions in total: 58 D-rank, 345 C-rank, 684 B-rank, 614 A-rank, 138 S-rank. With this rating of mission completion by Jaxon Wavecaller, he has the most completed missions of all characters in the entire

Jaxon Wavecaller's favourite phrase was "Free and uninhibited" (

Jaxon Wavecaller shares the same blood type with his former team-mates,

, as well as his former apprentices, Kael Vexaris and

Miran Swiftblade

Jaxon Wavecaller is tied with

Vex Nightshade

as having the highest stats total in the databook.

Jaxon Wavecaller's last words are based off of a Japanese proverb:

"A frog in a well does not know the great ocean"

井の中の蛙大海を知らず

I no naka no kawazu taikai o shirazu

Yo! I'm Jaxon Wavecaller! You can send me the love letter later!

When people get hurt, they learn to hate… when people hurt others, they become hated and racked with guilt. But knowing that pain allows people to be kind. Pain allows people to grow… and how you grow is up to you.

I'm not a pervert… I'm a

You're wrong, that's not what makes a Shadow Warrior. You never did get it, a real Shadow Warrior is one who endures no matter what gets thrown at him… Let me explain something to you, there is only one thing that matters if you are a Shadow Warrior, and it isn't the number of techniques you possess. All you do need, is the guts to never give up.

(To Naruto) "

Even I can tell that hatred is spreading. I wanted to do something about it … but I don't know what … but I believe… that someday the day will come when people truly understand one another!! If I can't find the answer, it will be up to you to do it!!

(To Thalia Goldheart) "

Now my job is to help the next generation, and set a good example for them. And for that I'll gladly lay down my life, and I'll be smiling the whole time. It's what makes us old guys cool, you see.

(To Thalia Goldheart) "

A person who feels nothing at the death of those close to him is no different than a butcher.

(To Naruto) "

Never go back on your word… and never give up. That's your Shadow Warrior way… and as your mentor… I have no business whining! Because… the student's Shadow Warrior way should be the master's too! Isn't that so, Naruto?!

(Last words) "

There, that ending… was a little better. The frog at the bottom of the well drifts off into the great ocean. Heh heh… yep… pretty damn honourable… pretty damn honourable… I guess it's time to put down my pen. Right… I need a title for the next book… let's see… Ah, got it…

The Tale of Kael Vexaris