Doggydaddy Gray
==============

This article is about the character. For other uses, see

Doggydaddy Gray (disambiguation)

Doggydaddy Gray

Gray Doggydaddy

Verdant Reach

Gray Line

Doggydaddy of the

Crimson Lens no Doggydaddy

), he is one of Verdant Reach's most talented Operative, regularly looked to for advice and leadership despite his personal dislike of responsibility. To his students on

, Doggydaddy emphasises the importance of teamwork; he himself received this lesson, along with the Crimson Lens, from his childhood friend,

Orin Noctryn

. After the

Fourth Operative World War

, Doggydaddy becomes Verdant Reach's

Rokudaime Verdant Warden

literally meaning:

Sixth Fire Shadow).

Third Operative World War

Black Cell Career

Personality

Axiom and Physical Prowess

Nature Transformation

Advanced Crimson Lens

Intelligence

Prologue — Land of Waves

Initiate Trials

Verdant Reach Crush

Search for Thalia Merrow

Sael Recovery Mission

Mizuki Tracking Mission

Cursed Warrior Extermination Mission

Ash Dunes Support Mission

In Kael's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Dune Warden Rescue Mission

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Red Covenant Suppression Mission

Three-Tails' Appearance

Varyn Pursuit Mission

Fated Battle Between Brothers

Six-Tails Unleashed

Pain's Assault

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdant Reach

Five Warden Summit

Fourth Operative World War: Countdown

Paradise Life on a Boat

Fourth Operative World War: Confrontation

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Blank Period

Doggydaddy Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky

Shikamaru Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness

The Last: Kael the Movie

Lyra Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze

Verdant Reach Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding

Sael Shinden: Book of Sunrise

Doggydaddy Retsuden: The Sixth Verdant Warden and the Failure Boy

Academy Entrance Arc

Verdant Reach Shinden: Steam Operative Scrolls

Graduation Exams Arc

Kael Shinden: Parent and Child Day

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

Kara Actuation Arc

In Other Media

Kael the Movie: Operative Clash in the Land of Snow

Kael the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom

Kael Shippūden the Movie

Kael Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

Kael Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire

Kael Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower

Kael the Movie: Blood Prison

Road to Operative: Kael the Movie

Video Games

Creation and Conception

Doggydaddy finds his father dead.

Because his mother died when he was very young,

Doggydaddy was raised during his early years by his father,

. Sakumo was famed throughout the Operative world, having saved Verdant Reach on at least one occasion; Doggydaddy in particular revered his father.

Doggydaddy becomes a Initiate.

In the Academy, Doggydaddy earned top grades, earning him recognition as a prodigy and the best of his generation.

Ultimately, he became very popular amongst his peers. With his talents soon being recognised, at age 5, Doggydaddy graduated from the Academy at the top of his class in a single year. When his classmates,

and Orin Noctryn graduated three years later, they were teamed together, with Doggydaddy, under the leadership of

Miren Flux

. In the anime, Dart gave the team a

at its formation, assigning the three to take the two bells he kept on his person. Dart often held back less against the prodigious Doggydaddy than with Rin and Orin so they couldn't obtain the bells without teamwork. While realising this, Doggydaddy unfortunately only used Orin and Rin as a means to an end to obtain the bells. Nonetheless, Dart passed them because they accomplished the goal of the test by working as a team. Dart did encourage them to improve their teamwork afterwards, a message that Orin and Rin took to heart, but fell upon deaf ears with Doggydaddy.

Team Dart

would go on many missions during its career, but Doggydaddy's devotion to the rules often made him difficult to work with;

Orin, already jealous of Doggydaddy's natural talent and popularity, was frequently at odds with him about this behaviour. At age 6, Verdant Reach officials allowed Doggydaddy to compete in the

Initiate Trials

with his team, which he passed by defeating

and became a

During one of Sakumo's missions - after Doggydaddy was promoted to Binder -

Sakumo made the decision to save the lives of his teammates rather than complete the assignment. The mission's failure had disastrous consequences for the

Land of Fire

, causing many in Verdant Reach, including the teammates he saved, to vilify him for abandoning his duties. Disgraced, Sakumo committed suicide. Seeing what his father went through and determined not to make the same mistakes, Doggydaddy decided that following the

Operative Rules

must always take priority.

Third Operative World War

Verdant Reach eventually became embroiled in the

Third Operative World War

. As part of the war effort,

Team Dart

was assigned to destroy the

Kannabi Bridge

in order to cut off

's supply line. Dart was needed on the front lines at the time, leaving Doggydaddy, recently promoted to

in charge. Before embarking on the mission, Dart and Rin gave him presents to celebrate his promotion; Orin forgot to get him anything. Shortly after entering Kusa, they encountered an Iwa-scout,

. Doggydaddy tried to eliminate him with his new Pattern,

, but the attack speed left him vulnerable to counter-attack, forcing Dart to step in, save Doggydaddy, and kill Mahiru himself. Before leaving them, Dart advised Doggydaddy to not use the Impulse Arc again.

Doggydaddy saving Orin.

Doggydaddy, Rin, and Orin continued further in to Kusa. They were eventually found by Mahiru's teammates,

, who kidnapped Rin in order to find out what their mission was. Orin immediately suggested that they rescue her, but Doggydaddy elected to abandon Rin, believing it was more important to finish the mission before concerning themselves with her safety. Orin refused to go along with this and went off to save Rin by himself. Before he left, he told Doggydaddy that Sakumo had been a hero and that, although it was bad to abandon one's mission, it was worse to abandon one's teammates. Doggydaddy began carrying out the mission alone, but ultimately decided that Orin was right and went to join him. He arrived in time to save Orin from Taiseki with his

White Light Axiom Sabre

, which he inherited from his father.

turned invisible

and tried launching a sneak attack on Orin. Doggydaddy protected him, but his left eye was badly damaged in the process. In that moment, Orin awakened his Crimson Lens and used it to kill Taiseki. They then entered the cave where Rin was being held, drove off Kakkō, and released Rin from the

he placed her under. Kakkō retaliated by forcing a cave-in and Doggydaddy, due to his damaged eye, was struck in his blind spot and had difficulty avoiding the falling rocks. Before he could be crushed by a large boulder, Orin pushed him out of the way, becoming trapped instead. Unable to get free and knowing his injuries were too serious to survive, Orin decided to make his last act giving Doggydaddy the present he forgot to give him earlier: his Crimson Lens to replace the eye Doggydaddy lost.

After Rin transplanted Orin's Crimson Lens into him, Doggydaddy confronted Kakkō. His White Light Axiom Sabre was destroyed during the ensuing fight, but he succeeded in killing Kakkō with Impulse Arc; due to the Crimson Lens's heightened vision, Doggydaddy was finally able to handle its speed. He went back to where Orin and Rin were, but Iwa reinforcements soon arrived and started constricting the rubble. Orin asked Doggydaddy to take Rin away and keep her safe, which Doggydaddy did, leaving Orin behind. As the Iwa-nin started surrounding them, Doggydaddy attacked them for as long as he could, holding them off until Dart eventually tracked them down and finished off the rest. Dart assisted them with destroying the Kannabi Bridge and then returned with them to Verdant Reach to mourn Orin's death. Despite many from the Noctryn Line being against Doggydaddy wielding a Crimson Lens as he had no blood-ties to them,

Fugaku Noctryn

, the Noctryn head, chose to honour Orin's dying actions and let Doggydaddy keep his gift.

Doggydaddy unintentionally kills Rin.

During a later mission, Rin was kidnapped by

. Doggydaddy was eventually able to rescue her and started taking her back to Verdant Reach. Along the way, Rin revealed that Kiri had sealed the

Three-Tails

into her body with the intention to, once she inevitably lost control of it, have it unleashed on Verdant Reach and destroy the village from within. In order to prevent this from happening, Rin begged Doggydaddy to kill her, but he refused, unwilling to break his promise to Orin to protect her and hoping to find some other solution. When Kiri-nin caught up with them and made false efforts to retrieve her, Doggydaddy fought them off with his renamed Impulse Arc, the

Lightning Cutter

. During one of these attacks, Rin jumped in front of Doggydaddy's attack, dying by his hand so that Verdant Reach would be safe.

The trauma of this caused his Crimson Lens to evolve into a

Advanced Crimson Lens

shortly before Doggydaddy passed out.

He was later found by Verdant Reach reinforcements, but none could explain the slaughter of all the Kiri forces, not knowing of

's actions.

Black Cell Career

Doggydaddy joins the Black Cell.

Because he'd lost two teammates in such a short timespan, his role in Rin's death, and his failure to honour Orin's last request by protecting her, Doggydaddy dropped into a depression. In the anime, many believed he purposely killed Rin to prevent her from leaking information, earning him the nickname "Friend-Killer Doggydaddy". Many, especially those in Black Cell believed he would kill a comrade without hesitation if it was for the sake of completing the mission. He would also spend his days avoiding friends and former classmates and at night he would be haunted by dreams of himself killing Rin again. Dart, now the new

, tried to help Doggydaddy emerge from the darkness he'd fallen into after Orin and Rin's deaths by assigning him to the

in order to have him close in an attempt to alleviate his pain.

Doggydaddy did well in the Black Cell, eventually becoming a captain and the leader of

. However, his successes were owed to his cold behaviour and his ruthlessness in combat, signs that he was still upset by Rin's death. Dart therefore tried a different tactic: assigning Doggydaddy to protect Dart's wife,

Kushina Vexaris

, during her pregnancy. Doggydaddy carried out his duties faithfully, monitoring Kushina from the shadows whenever she left her home.

During his time off, he would visit Rin's

and Orin's

to tell them his regrets and how life was going without them.

Doggydaddy and his peers are blocked from helping Verdant Reach.

Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack

, Doggydaddy and many of Verdant Reach's other young Operative were prevented from helping defend the village, instead being confined within a

to keep them safe.

Dart eventually saved the village from the

, but at the cost of his and Kushina's lives. After which,

Danzō Shimura

approached a grieving young Doggydaddy, noting that it was

Eldric Vane

's orders for the children, even high-ranking Operative like Doggydaddy, to not help battle the Nine-Tails, ultimately preventing Doggydaddy from possibly saving Dart and Kushina. Convincing an emotional Doggydaddy that the Third was not best for the future of the village, Doggydaddy agreed to join Danzō's

division and spy on the Verdant Warden for him. During a mission, Doggydaddy encountered another Root member codenamed "

" who was able to use

Wood Release

Knowing that Wood Release was unique to the

First Verdant Warden

, Doggydaddy broke in to the

Verdant Warden Residence

to see what he could learn about this anomaly. The Third caught him, but freely gave him the information he wanted: Verdant Reach had tried to recreate the Wood Release powers in the past, but abandoned the project for killing too many test subjects. The Third then mused that the Nine-Tails might have been defeated and Dart saved had the research been successful.

Doggydaddy spares Kinoe's life.

From this meeting with the Third, it became clear to Doggydaddy that the Third was not the ineffectual, passionless leader Danzō had made him out to be. Moreover, Danzō had not used Kinoe to try and stop the Nine-Tails' attack. Realising he had picked the wrong side, Doggydaddy told the Third about Danzō's plans to assassinate him and, the following day, personally lured out the assassins, of whom Kinoe was one. Doggydaddy easily defeated him, but chose to spare his life in the belief that he would become a valuable ally in the future. Doggydaddy attempted to resign from the Black Cell afterwards for working against the Verdant Warden, but the Third insisted his service was invaluable and made Doggydaddy his right-hand man.

Doggydaddy unable to stop Oren Khelt.

From investigating a series of disappearances, Doggydaddy provided a lead and it was discovered that

was behind the Wood Release research that produced Kinoe. In the anime, Doggydaddy attacked Oren Khelt when the Third Verdant Warden failed to apprehend him, but he was paralysed by Oren Khelt's

killing intent

and Oren Khelt escaped.

Doggydaddy followed him once he regained his composure, but was captured by the

, who were loyal to Oren Khelt. Kinoe, their ally, convinced them to let him interrogate Doggydaddy. Once alone, Kinoe confided that Danzō was making his own plans against Oren Khelt and, with help from

, helped Doggydaddy get free.

Doggydaddy later planned to use Yukimi to capture Oren Khelt, since she was of great importance to him. Later, Doggydaddy explained that Yukimi's blood could temporarily bestow Oren Khelt with the Iburi Line's smoke transformation, allowing him to slip across the border. Overhearing that, Yukimi slipped away and returned to the cave. Oren Khelt ultimately killed most of the Iburi Line before escaping yet again, but Doggydaddy, recognising that Kinoe's relationship with Yukimi is much like his relationship with Rin was, helped keep her safe. Doggydaddy decided to leave and not report anything about the Iburi or Root's involvement.

Doggydaddy and Kinoe surrounded by Root.

Doggydaddy continued to investigate Oren Khelt over the following years, eventually locating one of his secret labs three years after the latter's defection. While there, he was attacked by Kinoe, who Danzō had sent to take his Crimson Lens. Doggydaddy tried to reason with him by stating that friendship should take higher priority than the mission. When Kinoe accused Doggydaddy of violating that creed by killing Rin, enraged by that comment, Doggydaddy overpowered him and decided to bring him before the Third Verdant Warden.

Before they could leave, one of Oren Khelt's

snake experiments

escaped its test tube and attacked the duo. As Kinoe was taken captive, Doggydaddy managed to slay the creature. While saving Kinoe, the creature's corpse began emitting a poisonous vapour which quickly infected Doggydaddy. Kinoe got Doggydaddy out safely and, having accepted Doggydaddy's words, gave Doggydaddy an antidote and chose to abandon his mission whilst leaving Doggydaddy a message about it. When Doggydaddy woke up, he knew Danzō would punish Kinoe for insubordination and asked the Third for help. With the Third's permission, Doggydaddy forced his way into Root headquarters and stopped Danzō from applying a

cursed seal

to Kinoe. As Root forces started to surround them, the Third showed up to personally authorise Doggydaddy's actions, and further negotiated Kinoe's release from Root. Doggydaddy added Kinoe, now with the new codename "Tenzō", to Team Ro.

Doggydaddy and Varyn mercilessly assassinate the Prajñā Group.

Two years later,

Varyn Noctryn

was added to Team Ro. Doggydaddy and Varyn were at one point assigned to observe a meeting between Verdant Reach and the

Land of Woods

. When the Land of Woods'

Prajñā Group

tried to betray the Verdant Reach forces, Doggydaddy and Varyn moved in and defeated them. Although Doggydaddy was impressed by Varyn's abilities, he warned him against his merciless approach and encouraged him on the importance of friends.

Sometime later, Varyn asked Doggydaddy if dead friends' requests should be honoured, which Doggydaddy said they should.

Varyn was eventually promoted out of Team Ro and replaced by

Yūgao Uzuki

. Shortly afterwards, Team Ro was sent to the

Noctryn Line

's compound with orders to pacify a brewing rebellion, only to find the

entire Line dead

. When news emerged that Varyn was responsible and that he had killed his best friend,

Shisui Noctryn

, in pursuit of power, Doggydaddy lamented his failure to have had a better influence on Varyn.

Doggydaddy leaves the Black Cell.

Because of what happened with Varyn, the Third Verdant Warden felt that individuals with kind hearts did not belong in the Black Cell. He therefore thanked Doggydaddy for his years of service and relieved him of his duty, returning him to the standard forces.

Over the years, he was placed in charge of several teams of Academy graduates, but none ever demonstrated the teamwork he considered to be so important. In the anime, he started worrying that his own methods were too harsh, but from seeing how his former underlings that he previously failed prospered due to his teachings, his faith was reaffirmed.

Personality

Doggydaddy's cold-heartedness.

Doggydaddy has been very independent, perceptive, and self-confident since early childhood, and tends to broach difficult conversations with blunt pragmatism. He carries himself with a relaxed, almost bored disposition and is known for being solitary and aloof, with an occasional tendency to ignore his peers. These qualities lead some to perceive him as arrogant or condescending; however, Doggydaddy is truthfully quite modest about himself, even in the face of his growing reputation as a Operative and leader. He is also habitually tardy, showing up at his leisure with excuses that convince nobody, and later leaving for equally poor reasons. Though Doggydaddy wants others to believe this is how he always acts, he only does so for matters that aren't of particular importance. In his role as Verdant Warden, Doggydaddy dutifully worked for the village's progress. He also believes that even in times of peace, no one should become a Operative without appreciating the importance of it.

Doggydaddy suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder.

Doggydaddy's life was shaped by the death of his childhood squadmates. He spends hours of his free time visiting Rin's grave and the Memorial Stone where Orin's name is engraved, telling them about his life, recent events in Verdant Reach, and others they knew. Most of all, he shares his regrets that they cannot be with him and that their deaths were his fault. In the anime, after Rin died, Doggydaddy struggled to cope with post-traumatic stress disorder, having nightmares about her death and growing depressed whenever others mentioned her. Over time, Doggydaddy comes to accept that her choice to sacrifice herself and his guilt became more about his broken promise to Orin to keep her safe. This causes Orin's apparent death to weigh more heavily on him, compounded by regrets about his behaviour when they last spoke. Doggydaddy feels that, had he cared about teamwork and friendship in the same way that Orin did, Orin's "death" might have been avoided. Thinking it would ease his pain, Dart convinced Doggydaddy to join the Black Cell. During his time in the Black Cell however, Doggydaddy gained a reputation for his cold-bloodedness.

Kurenai Yūhi

noted that Doggydaddy suffered with suicidal thoughts during his Black Cell career, with his reckless fighting style and lack of self-care being deemed as Doggydaddy being in a hurry to die.

After his father's death, Doggydaddy initially became stern and cold toward others, chastising any who disobeyed orders and being willing to abandon his comrades to finish missions. However, Orin's apparent death profoundly changed him; he became committed to teamwork and always places teammates' well-being above the mission's. He believes goals can be accomplished more effectively together, asking for help when he needs it, providing help when it is requested of him, and praising allies when they deserve it. An abuse of one's teammates is the only thing that can make Doggydaddy cast aside his normally stoic demeanour, causing him to attack without mercy or his usual sense of sportsmanship. He expects his prospective students to demonstrate this same devotion to teamwork, which none until Team 7 were able to do; despite the high failure rate, the Third Verdant Warden agrees with Doggydaddy's choice to require it. Doggydaddy becomes fond of all Team 7's members, even Sael Noctryn, to the point of blaming himself for Sael's criminal acts and his team's growing rift over it throughout Part II. He holds out hope that Sael will correct his behaviour, and for his patience he is able to see Team 7 reunified when by the end of the

Fourth Operative World War

Doggydaddy and Guy competing in their usual "contests".

has considered Doggydaddy his rival ever since they first met in the

. Despite his father's warning that Guy might someday prove stronger than him, Doggydaddy didn't think much of Guy at the time. Guy took this as a challenge and began striving to earn Doggydaddy's approval so as to show that his perseverance could be just as good as Doggydaddy's natural genius. When Guy would suggest contests to test how their abilities compared, Doggydaddy would respond with indifference, only fuelling Guy's desire to defeat his "cool, hip, and trendy" personality. At the start of Part I, Doggydaddy's score is 50 wins and 49 losses,

though even when Guy takes the lead the score difference remains the same; considering that their competitions range from eating contests to Rock, Paper, Scissors, the score isn't truly representative of anything. Doggydaddy eventually comes to consider Guy one of his closest and most reliable friends, and by the end of the Fourth Operative World War, he acknowledges that Guy has surpassed him.

Doggydaddy's obsession with the

When he first meets his students on

, Doggydaddy claims to have many hobbies, none of which he chooses to share at the time. He is an avid fan of the

series of novels; he always has one of the books with him and regularly reads it, even while talking to others.

Kael Vexaris

as one of Doggydaddy's few weaknesses, which he is able to take advantage of during a

by threatening to spoil the ending of the newest book in the series, forcing Doggydaddy to shut his eyes and ears and thereby leave himself vulnerable. Although most people he knows are aware of how much he likes

, Doggydaddy is seemingly uncomfortable sharing the books with others, embarrassed by the presumably adult content.

Following his retirement from active duty, Doggydaddy has become much more laid-back and unbothered by events and people surrounding him. His speech mannerisms and tone also resemble those of an old man. Although steadfast during any and all important events, Doggydaddy actively avoids taking on responsibilities during his free time, such as when he attempted to evade

's pleas for training. Furthermore, Doggydaddy also enjoys having others perform the most basic of chores on his behalf, such as roping Boruto into helping him with shopping duties, and initially refusing to help with

's issues with their

grandparents

until being promised a rare first edition of an

volume, with an extended ending.

Doggydaddy without his mask.

Doggydaddy has a strong resemblance to his father, so much so that they are sometimes mistaken for each other.

He has spiky silver hair often oriented to his left-side, dark grey eyes (black in several instances), and typically a relaxed and lazy expression. During the

Third Operative World War

, his left eye was damaged, leaving a vertical scar from the injury. The eye was shortly afterwards replaced with a

, which he covers with his

forehead protector

when he isn't using it. After his original eye was restored by Kael during the

Fourth Operative World War

, Doggydaddy returned to wearing his forehead protector balanced above his forehead. Since early childhood and near-constantly, he wears a mask that prevents most of his face from being visible. Even his

have seen his face so sparingly that most of them don't remember what he looks like unmasked.

On the few occasions he exposes his full face, he has a narrow jaw-line and a beauty mark under the left corner of his mouth.

Overall, he is considered very handsome as seen from Teuchi and Ayame's reaction to seeing his face.

Doggydaddy during the Third Operative World War.

Doggydaddy as a member of the Black Cell.

Doggydaddy's appearance for most of the series.

Doggydaddy wears Verdant Reach's standard infantry clothing for most of Part I and Part II: a

flak jacket

, dark blue pants, and a long-sleeve shirt. He also wears fingerless gloves with metal plates on the backhand and is seen with a chain necklace underneath.

His appearance remains largely the same following the

Fourth Operative World War

, except for a red armband on his left bicep, boots instead of sandals, and Verdant Reach's redesigned flak jacket. The kanji "六火" (Literally meaning

) is written on the back, denoting his

position. For formal occasions, he wears the typical Verdant Warden garb: the traditional headpiece and haori, along with a red, full-length kimono, tied using a white sash. Written vertically on the back of the robe, Doggydaddy has the kanji for Sixth Verdant Warden (

Rokudaime Verdant Warden

literally meaning:

Sixth Fire Shadow). He switched from using a knotted forehead protector to a modern elasticised one.

Doggydaddy during The Last.

Doggydaddy as the Sixth Verdant Warden.

Doggydaddy in the New Era.

Doggydaddy wore several different outfits prior to Part I. In the academy, he wore a long sleeved anchor-grey shirt with a zipper, a green scarf and slate-coloured shorts. He also wore blue sandals, which he also wore during the Third Operative World War. During the Third Operative World War, he wore a black T-shirt with white stripes in the middle of the sleeves, additional sleeves over his arms, metal arm protectors, leather straps around his back and chest, and dark pants. Prior to its destruction, his family's

White Light Axiom Sabre

was kept in a small holder in the middle of his back. During his

career, he wore a simple blue suit with a grey flak jacket, strapped up sandals and arm guards that went up to his elbows. While not on duty as an Black Cell, he wore a similar outfit with segmented gauntlets and bandages over his calves. His fox mask

had red and black markings around the eyes, sides, and mouth. One trait left over from his career as an Black Cell is their signature tattoo resembling a red flame on his left deltoid.

Doggydaddy disguised as "Sukea".

When masquerading as "Sukea", he removes his forehead protector and mask. Instead, he wears a wig of shaggy greyish-brown hair, grey-coloured contact lenses, along with purple makeup over his eyes and purple patches under them to conceal his scar. He also normally wears a long green trench coat and purple scarf with grey pants. While playing along into pretending to steal his own Operative registration photo, Doggydaddy briefly wore a black long-sleeved shirt and a light grey flak jacket.

Doggydaddy intimidating opponents with his Pattern.

Doggydaddy is one of the strongest Operative Verdant Reach ever produced, with his advanced skills earning him the title of a genius (

A prodigy of such innate talent and intellect,

he showcased highly advanced skill from a young age and even performed official missions while still in the Academy.

From which, he rapidly rose through the Operative ranks.

His prowess is said to rival an entire country,

something that earned him recognition on sight by various high-level Operative.

members of Red Covenant acknowledge his might;

he outmaneuvered

Varyn Noctryn

(albeit he couldn't use his Advanced Crimson Lens at the time), fought

Kisame Hoshigaki

to a standstill, and was deemed a major threat by

He even fought on par with the adult

Orin Noctryn

, whose prowess was comparable to

Malrec Noctryn

Doggydaddy is very versatile with advanced proficiency in countless areas including mastery of all three main Operative skills; noted as smarter than

Silas Korr

, having a better sense of smell than

Kiba Inuzuka

, more adept with the

Sael Noctryn

, and more skilled in

—even as each of them are well-known for their high capacities in those respective areas.

prowess can use basic techniques to major effect for intimidation and distraction.

Doggydaddy's combat and tactical prowess are so revered, that many foresaw his rise to Verdant Warden status years before it happened.

At the same time, the

Sage of Six Paths

believed Doggydaddy's greatest strength is as a teacher and leader, which proved vital in

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki

Even after losing his Crimson Lens, Doggydaddy's combat prowess continued to increase.

Despite being retired, Doggydaddy was able to pressure

Koji Kashin

's strongest Inners and an enhanced clone of

, into retreating.

Axiom and Physical Prowess

Doggydaddy engages Kakuzu in hand-to-hand combat.

Originally, by his own admission, Doggydaddy's

reserves were average. He could only use the

Lightning Cutter

four times or

three times per day. To compensate, he relied on superb control, requiring no more than the minimum amount to perform his technique, even able to do so with a single hand. However, by Part II, Doggydaddy's reserves increased to a considerable size, able to perform both techniques several more times and repeatedly in a single battle with only minor exhaustion. In later years, his reserves increased further, able to create and maintain four collective

massive walls

for a few days and casually utilise his

Purple Electricity

numerous times.

can take various approaches in close combat. From his time in the

, he can suddenly approach enemies from behind unnoticed, even by other Black Cell.

Likewise, with attacks from the front, he can strike with blazing speed and debilitating precision to quickly defeat multiple enemies. Doggydaddy is able to open at least one of the

Eight Seals

He has reflexes sharp enough to block attacks he is unable to see,

and has immense speed that allows him to perform

at unreadable rates.

Doggydaddy using Axiom Spiral.

In battle, Doggydaddy primarily relies on his great knowledge and skill in

. As an academy student, he excelled well-past his peers, being able to use

-level ninjutsu.

Over the years, due in large part to his

, he gained a vast arsenal of ninjutsu; reputed to have copied over a thousand techniques, earning his moniker as "Copy Operative Doggydaddy" (

Kopī Operative no Doggydaddy

This, combined with years of experience, allows him to handle almost any combat situation in various ways. He is also well-versed in

, impressing

Many years after the

Fourth Operative World War

, Doggydaddy skill in

Medical Ninjutsu

is able to ease physical pain with a mere touch.

Doggydaddy's ninken.

Doggydaddy also has his own personal pack of

, which he raised since they were puppies; in the anime, he had them since before the

Third Operative World War

one or more of them, Doggydaddy uses them for various means including fetching, restraining,

and tracking. Outside of battle, he often uses them to deliver messages.

Doggydaddy wielding Kubikiribōchō.

Doggydaddy is highly skilled in a wide variety of weapons such as

bows and arrows

wire strings

. Since childhood, Doggydaddy was highly proficient in

, being able to wield his

father's signature tantō

effectively enough to be mistaken for Sakumo. From his background in the Black Cell, Doggydaddy's swordsmanship became very adaptable, able to effectively utilise the

Kubikiribōchō

a uniquely shaped blade with noticeable size and weight, and he was able to defeat kenjutsu experts such as the Seven Operative Swordsmen of the Mist with it.

He also has considerable skill in

shurikenjutsu

, able to lash out at an opponent with a swift flurry of kunai and even effectively throw kunai with a well-placed kick.

Likewise in close-quarters combat, he can skillfully use weapons in both hands simultaneously and even fend off other skilled melee combatants such as Zabuza and Hidan, armed with their respective unique weapons, using a single kunai.

Nature Transformation

Doggydaddy's signature technique, the Lightning Cutter.

Doggydaddy can use all five basic

nature transformations

, as well as the

Yin Release

Yang Release

Water Release

without a nearby water source,

and use it to produce

massive offensive

defensive structures

Earth Release

move underground

for sneak attacks or produce

multiple intricate walls

to defend himself or large areas from attack.

Years after the Fourth Operative World War, Doggydaddy learned to convert his Earth Release techniques into

Improving the quality of his techniques in this way negates its weakness to lightning-based nature attacks by absorbing and dissipating opposing techniques.

He is shown using

Fire Release

to launch a

massive fireball

Doggydaddy using Lightning Release: Purple Electricity.

Doggydaddy's natural affinity is

Lightning Release

which he can

to enhance his physical tools offensive might to pierce and pass through large rocks.

After failing to infuse the Axiom Spiral with his lightning nature, he instead used its basic principles to create his signature technique,

With it, he collects lightning Axiom with one or both hands simultaneously, which can pierce most targets that it is thrust into. Doggydaddy later refined Impulse Arc to once famously split a bolt of lightning with, earning the name "

Lightning Cutter

He can use it to counter other lightning attacks. Other lightning-based techniques of Doggydaddy’s include creating

to attack with,

that paralyse opponents on contact,

that can even cut through the highly dense

Tailed Beast Axiom Arms

. By his tenure as the Sixth Verdant Warden, to make up for his inability to no longer safely use the Lightning Cutter without the Crimson Lens, as it countered the tunnel vision caused when using the technique, Doggydaddy had created a new signature technique; the

Lightning Release: Purple Electricity

which allows him to release a surge of purple lightning to produce a variety of effects: attack from afar, augment his physical strikes, and release a burst from all around him.

Doggydaddy's Crimson Lens.

Doggydaddy received his Crimson Lens during the

Third Operative World War

Orin Noctryn

, a replacement for the left eye he'd lost shortly beforehand. The Crimson Lens became his most identifying feature in the years since, widely known as "Doggydaddy of the Crimson Lens" (

Crimson Lens no Doggydaddy

). With this dōjutsu, Doggydaddy can accurately reproduce any movement he sees (his own physical skill permitting), take in a heightened amount of visual information, and perform the Crimson Lens's broad category of

. Because he isn't an

, he can't deactivate the Crimson Lens and it rapidly drains his Axiom whenever he uses it, leaving him bedridden after extended use.

As such, he always keeps the eye covered until he needs it. Despite his handicap, he is still noted to have impressive prowess wielding it, as noted by both Varyn and Orin Noctryn.

Doggydaddy lost his Crimson Lens during the

Fourth Operative World War

When Orin died with both his Crimson Lens, his spirit briefly returned from the afterlife and inhabited Doggydaddy's body. During which, Orin channelled both his eyes' dōjutsu power into Doggydaddy, granting full usage of their abilities with no strains or setbacks.

Advanced Crimson Lens

Doggydaddy's Advanced Crimson Lens.

Doggydaddy gained a

Advanced Crimson Lens

killed herself on Doggydaddy's Lightning Cutter,

which he could use after long hours of study and training.

Its design is three triangles wrapping themselves around the pupil, similar to a pinwheel. He was able to maintain it for over a decade, though he was steadily suffering its side-effects with each usage, such as bleeding eyes and deteriorating vision. With his left Advanced, Doggydaddy can use the long-range variant of

: remotely forming a barrier around whatever he looks at to warp the target to

Phase Fold's dimension

; eventually, he learns how to send himself to the dimension and to a new location from it.

While he initially had trouble aiming Phase Fold properly,

he improved to the point where he could accurately use Phase Fold on fast-moving projectiles.

Originally, the technique required some amount of preparation and was a huge drain on his Axiom each time it was performed. Later on, Doggydaddy refined his execution to the point where he could perform it faster than most could even see, and use Phase Fold repeatedly with much less Axiom drain.

Doggydaddy's Complete Body — Aegis Manifest.

After Doggydaddy loses his Crimson Lens, his body is temporarily inhabited by Orin's spirit, allowing him to use both of Orin's Advanced. Due to these eyes possessing

Six Paths Axiom

, this allowed Doggydaddy to utilize the Advanced Crimson Lens and its abilities with much greater power, as well as repeated and extended use with no ill effects to his health, Axiom, or eyesight.

In addition to the long-range Phase Fold he'd originally had, he could use its short-range variant to overlap his body with Phase Fold's dimension, effectively making him intangible so that any dangers phase through him.

combining this ability

with his Lightning Cutter, Doggydaddy could bypass all defences and eliminate the possibility of being countered while attacking. Having manifested a dual Advanced, Doggydaddy could use

, which he quickly honed into its "Complete Body" form. It can be used for flight, defending others with its large size, and even have the intangibility of Phase Fold extended to it. It can manifest either swords or shuriken to aid him in battle, the latter of which can produce

Phase Fold Shuriken

in order to warp away whatever they cut. Doggydaddy lost all these abilities after Orin's spirit returned to the afterlife.

Intelligence

Doggydaddy's talent for systematically planning ahead and swiftly changing tactics allows him to adapt to virtually any threat. Part of Doggydaddy's usual approach to combat is to rely on the

Body Replacement Technique

clone techniques

, thereby keeping himself out of harm's way while he observes an opponent and their abilities.

Likewise, he remains alert to any unexplained or unexpected occurrences, coming up with theories for their causes when they arise and exploiting them if they prove true, which they usually do.

Once he identifies an opponent's weakness, Doggydaddy can quickly formulate a plan to take advantage of it. This allows him to instinctively design the proper countermeasure for the situation, using either his own myriad of techniques or relying on his allies' unique skills to that purpose. Such plans, while often elaborate and unorthodox, are typically highly successful and very low-risk, making Doggydaddy invaluable as a leader. He has also proven himself a very talented teacher, able to push his students' development by months, if not years, in just a matter of weeks through various innovative methods.

Intelligence

Prologue — Land of Waves

Main article:

Prologue — Land of Waves

The official photo for Team 7.

Doggydaddy is assigned as the leader of

, comprised of

Kael Vexaris

Sael Noctryn

Lyra Caelum

Third Verdant Warden

explains that he is selected for the team in order to keep an eye on Kael, the

and, in the anime, to help Sael cope with life after the

Noctryn Line Downfall

. During his first meeting with Team 7, Doggydaddy is unimpressed by them, finding them all to be too self-interested. He nevertheless gives them a

as he has for all the previous teams he's been assigned to and tells them to take one of the two bells on his person. Kael launches a first attack before the test officially begins; Doggydaddy stops him easily, but is nevertheless amused.

Doggydaddy reads

Icha Icha Paradise

during the test, convinced he won't need his full attention or both of his hands. Kael and his

shadow clones

fail to take a bell and Lyra, who focuses on looking for Sael, is defeated by one of Doggydaddy's

. Doggydaddy then goes to find Sael, expecting the same outcome as Kael and Lyra, but finds Sael was waiting for him. Doggydaddy is forced to go on the defensive and, when Sael uses the

Great Fireball Technique

, he must close his copy of

, but he still manages to defeat Sael. Doggydaddy gathers them together afterwards and tells them they've failed, explaining that, had they worked together rather than individually, they might have succeeded in acquiring a bell. They convince him to give them another chance after lunch, but Doggydaddy demands that Kael not be fed. He secretly watches them as they eat and sees Sael and Lyra give Kael food against his instructions, needing Kael in top form if they're to get a bell. Doggydaddy pretends to be angry when he approaches them, but tells them that they pass the test for placing the team's well-being above the mission parameters.

Team 7 completes a number of

missions, which Kael believes they are over-qualified for. He complains to the Third Verdant Warden about this and is able to secure a

mission: escorting

Land of Waves

. Shortly after leaving Verdant Reach, Doggydaddy notices they're being pursued by the

Demon Brothers

. He pretends to be killed by one of the Demon Brothers' attacks so that he can observe them, stepping in to neutralise them once Team 7 can't hold them off anymore. After restraining them, Doggydaddy confronts Tazuna on why the Demon Brothers were trying to kill him. Tazuna confesses that assassins have been hired to kill him so that he can't build a bridge that will free the Land of Waves from the tyranny of

. Although this is an

assignment that Team 7, being only

, are unqualified for, they decide to help Tazuna anyway because Tazuna confessed his country is too poor to afford an A-rank assignment.

Doggydaddy vs. Zabuza.

When they arrive in the Land of Waves they are met by

Zabuza Momochi

-nin. Recognising how formidable Zabuza is, Doggydaddy uncovers his

and engages him, leaving his students in charge of protecting Tazuna. Doggydaddy initially does well against Zabuza, defeating Zabuza's

water clones

with his own. When Zabuza succeeds in trapping him in a

Water Prison

, Doggydaddy instructs Team 7 to leave him behind and escape with Tazuna. Kael ignores him and with help from Sael is able to release him. Doggydaddy thanks them and resumes his fight with Zabuza, copying his

and using them against him. Just as he is about to finish off Zabuza, Zabuza is seemingly killed by a young

and his body is taken away. Team 7 continues on to Tazuna's home, but Doggydaddy must be carried, having exhausted himself due to overuse of the Crimson Lens.

While recuperating, Doggydaddy starts to find Zabuza's death suspicious and worries he may still be alive. In case this is true, he shows Team 7 the

Tree Climbing Practice

in order to improve their

control, which will be useful if Zabuza does indeed return. After a week of rest Doggydaddy has recovered and all of Team 7 has mastered the exercise; Kael is tired from the training and is allowed to keep sleeping as they resume their bodyguarding of Tazuna. When they arrive at the bridge Tazuna is working on, they find Zabuza and

(the hunter-nin from before) waiting for them. Haku traps Sael in his

Demonic Mirroring Ice Crystals

, which Zabuza blocks Doggydaddy from helping him escape from. Once Kael arrives to lend Sael assistance, Doggydaddy engages Zabuza in combat.

Doggydaddy kills Haku.

Having learned from his previous encounter, Zabuza coats the area in a

so that Doggydaddy can't use his Crimson Lens. Because of this, Doggydaddy sticks close to Tazuna, knowing Zabuza will come for him eventually. Zabuza does indeed attack, and Doggydaddy is badly injured by Zabuza's

Kubikiribōchō

while defending Tazuna. While reeling from his wound, Doggydaddy senses Kael using the Nine-Tails' Axiom. Fearing that the seal containing the beast is weakening, Doggydaddy decides to finish the battle quickly: he

and has them track down his blood which is still on Zabuza's Kubikiribōchō. Once they locate him, they pin him down while Doggydaddy attacks with his

Lightning Cutter

. Just before he hits Zabuza, Haku steps in front of him and takes the attack instead.

As his last act, Haku grabs Doggydaddy so he can't get away, allowing Zabuza, freed from the ninken, to try to slice through him in order to get to Doggydaddy. Doggydaddy pulls away, sets down Haku's body, and, angered by what's happened, proceeds to debilitate both of Zabuza's arms. Gatō then arrives to kill them all, Zabuza included, with a horde of mercenaries. Zabuza kills Gatō first and Doggydaddy scares off the horde with his "

Multiple Echo Manifest

" (which is implied to just be the normal

Clone Technique

). Zabuza, dying from his injuries, asks Doggydaddy to place him next to Haku. Doggydaddy complies and, after he passes, buries them both. Their mission complete, Team 7 returns to Verdant Reach, travelling by way of the

Great Kael Bridge

that Tazuna finished building.

Initiate Trials

Main article:

Initiate Trials

Team 7 resumes its series of uninteresting missions, but Doggydaddy is nevertheless pleased by their development. Despite their only recent graduation from the

, he recommends that they enter the

Initiate Trials

. He neglects to tell them that they must enter as a team, not wanting any of them, especially Lyra, to feel pressured to participate. He is therefore glad when they all independently decide to take the exams and wishes them luck.

Doggydaddy faces Oren Khelt.

Several days after the exams start, Doggydaddy arrives to watch Team 7 in the preliminary fights. There, he is informed that Sael was attacked by

during the exams and branded with a

Cursed Seal of Heaven

. Doggydaddy warns Sael that he will be disqualified if he uses the cursed seal during his match. Sael avoids doing so and Doggydaddy takes him away afterwards, applying the

Evil Sealing Method

to prevent the cursed seal's use. After Sael passes out from the procedure, Oren Khelt confronts Doggydaddy, explaining his plans to acquire Sael's Crimson Lens for himself. Doggydaddy readies his Lightning Cutter to defend Sael, but Oren Khelt decides to leave, confident Sael will come to him willingly someday; Doggydaddy afterwards realises he would have been killed had they fought. Doggydaddy takes Sael to the hospital to rest, places him under the guard of

, and returns to watch the remaining preliminary matches, having promised Sael that he'd tell him all about the other combatants' abilities.

Doggydaddy and Sael arrive at the Initiate Trials arena.

After the preliminaries end, Doggydaddy returns to Sael to find all the Black Cell dead, killed by

Kabuto Yakushi

. He tries to capture Kabuto in order to learn more about Oren Khelt's plans for Sael, but Kabuto escapes. Doggydaddy is afterwards tracked down by Kael, who asks Doggydaddy to help him train for the exams' final matches in a month. Having already decided to train Sael, Doggydaddy refers Kael to

instead. In order to give Sael an alternative to the cursed seal's power, Doggydaddy spends a month teaching him the

. He also helps him improve his physical speed by visualising and mimicking

's movements. Training runs long and they end up arriving late for Sael's match against

. When Kael tries to warn him about Gareth Dune, Doggydaddy instructs him to just watch Sael's performance, and is amused by how quickly Kael's concern for Sael becomes jealousy of his abilities.

Verdant Reach Crush

Main article:

Verdant Reach Crush

Doggydaddy saves Lyra from Otogakure Operative.

The Initiate Trials are interrupted by an

invasion of Verdant Reach

and most of those watching the finals are rendered unconscious by a

. Doggydaddy is among those who dispel it and he starts fending off invading

forces. When he notices Sael going off on his own to fight Gareth Dune, Doggydaddy locates Lyra and sends her, Kael, and

Silas Korr

after him to provide assistance; he summons

to help them follow Sael. The fighting rages on until Doggydaddy and his fellow defenders eliminate all invaders in the area except for Kabuto and

, who opt to flee rather than continue fighting. Doggydaddy and the others then converge on the site where the Third Verdant Warden fought Oren Khelt, but discover that he's died in battle.

Doggydaddy attends the Third's funeral a few days later. He arrives late, having visited the

Memorial Stone

beforehand to reflect on those he's lost.

Search for Thalia Merrow

Main article:

Search for Thalia Merrow

Doggydaddy facing Kisame.

Shortly after the funeral, Doggydaddy notices cloaked individuals travelling around Verdant Reach. Suspicious, he follows them, but keeps up appearances that he is only meeting Sael for lunch. While waiting for Sael, he strikes up a conversation with

Asuma Sarutobi

Kurenai Yūhi

, quietly alerting them to the men in cloaks. When Sael arrives and the cloaked men leave, Doggydaddy sends Asuma and Kurenai after them. However, Doggydaddy starts to become concerned so he cancels lunch with Sael - not explaining the real reason - and joins Asuma and Kurenai. He arrives in time to save Asuma and Kurenai from

Kisame Hoshigaki

Varyn Noctryn

, respectively.

Varyn uses Lucid Snare on Doggydaddy.

Varyn advises Kisame to keep his distance from Doggydaddy, stating his fight with Doggydaddy would take too long. He also states that his own fight with Doggydaddy wouldn't take any time at all: he immediately attacks, which Doggydaddy only barely blocks with a

Water Formation Wall

. He then gets Kurenai away from Varyn's

Clone Great Explosion

, and when he looks back at Varyn catches a glimpse of his

Advanced Crimson Lens

. He orders Asuma and Kurenai to shut their eyes while he is attacked with

, subjecting him to three days of torture in a matter of seconds. He is able to remain conscious to Kisame's surprise and, using information earlier provided to him by

, guesses their purpose for being in Verdant Reach: they are members of

after the Nine-Tails within Kael.

Varyn orders Kisame to capture Doggydaddy to see what else he knows and to kill Asuma and Kurenai. Kisame is stopped by

and they retreat, at which point Doggydaddy passes out. Guy takes Doggydaddy back to his home and puts him to bed, where he remains comatose until

, comes to Verdant Reach and heals the damage to his mind.

Sael Recovery Mission

Main article:

Sael Recovery Mission

Doggydaddy stops the fight between Kael and Sael.

Doggydaddy is not done recovering when he is given a mission assignment, a consequence of Verdant Reach's lack of manpower following the failed invasion. Before leaving, he stops by the hospital where Sael has been staying after his own encounter with Varyn and finds Sael in the middle of combat with Kael. As Sael is about to clash his Impulse Arc with Kael's

, Doggydaddy catches them both and flings them apart. Doggydaddy starts questioning Sael about his apparent intentions to kill Kael, but Sael leaves rather than be lectured. Doggydaddy also notices Jax Orenthal nearby and, assuming Kael learned the Axiom Spiral from him, asks if that was a good idea; Jax Orenthal asks the same about teaching Sael the Impulse Arc. Doggydaddy asks Jax Orenthal to speak with Kael while he speaks with Sael. Before he goes, he assures Lyra that he'll set things right.

Doggydaddy lecturing Sael.

Doggydaddy locates Sael and ties him to a tree in order to force him to listen to what he has to say. He starts by trying to discourage Sael from avenging the

Noctryn Line

, insisting that, even if he's successful, it won't bring back those who are already dead. Sael retorts that Doggydaddy doesn't understand what he's going through and offers to kill the people most precious to Doggydaddy, only for Doggydaddy to reply that those very people are already dead. Sael is surprised and puts up less resistance, so Doggydaddy tells him that taking revenge for those that he's lost is not worth also losing those he still has, namely Kael and Lyra. To that end, he encourages Sael to start using Impulse Arc for its intended purpose: protecting friends rather than attacking them. He unties Sael and leaves for his mission, intending for what he said to sink in.

Doggydaddy retrieves Kael at the Valley of the End.

When he returns, Thalia Merrow informs him that Sael has defected to Oren Khelt and that Kael and a

team of Initiate

were sent after him. Upset with himself for not spending more time defusing Sael's angst, Doggydaddy goes after him, fearful that he and Kael may kill each other. He summons his ninken to help him track Sael and Kael, eventually finding the latter unconscious at the

Valley of the End

. Because of the rain, Doggydaddy is unable to track down Sael's scent and with Kael requiring medical attention, Doggydaddy prioritizes on bringing Kael back to Verdant Reach. En route, Doggydaddy meets with the

Medic Corps

and receives updates regarding the status of the other Initiate dispatched on the mission;

Silas Korr

Kiba Inuzuka

were injured but overall fine, while

Chōji Akimichi

were in critical condition. Thankfully, the latter two ultimately survive.

With Sael gone to Oren Khelt, Kael decides to start training with Jax Orenthal while Lyra trains with Thalia Merrow. Having no students to lead anymore, Doggydaddy resumes his prior mission schedule.

Mizuki Tracking Mission

Main article:

Mizuki Tracking Mission

In the anime, Doggydaddy returns from a mission in time to help round up escapees from the

Verdant Reach Strict Correctional Facility

Cursed Warrior Extermination Mission

Main article:

Cursed Warrior Extermination Mission

In the anime, Doggydaddy is sent to the

Land of Birds

as backup for Kael,

as they investigate the

Cursed Warrior

. He takes command of the team and eventually defeats

with relative ease.

Ash Dunes Support Mission

Main article:

Ash Dunes Support Mission

In the anime, Doggydaddy is sent to spy on the

Takumi Village

in order to investigate rumours of an uprising. There, he finds the entire village abandoned. He is later part of the reinforcements sent to

to help deal with the

Four Celestial Symbols Men

, only to discover that Kael's team already successfully completed the mission.

In Kael's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Main article:

In Kael's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Doggydaddy arrives at Amegakure.

In the anime, about two years after Kael leaves Verdant Reach to train with Jax Orenthal, another Binder Exam is held. Doggydaddy is sent to

to invite its Operative to participate, a mere pretext for him to investigate rumours surrounding the village.

He is stopped at the village's entrance, but is able to arrange a meeting with

(who is actually

in disguise) and delivers the invitation.

Although he appears to leave Ame afterwards, Doggydaddy sneaks back in to see what he can find out. It immediately becomes apparent to him that, although Ame's Operative don't know the identity of the intruder, they are aware that someone has infiltrated the village. Doggydaddy decides to go back to Verdant Reach rather than risk causing an incident.

Dune Warden Rescue Mission

Main article:

Dune Warden Rescue Mission

Doggydaddy facing Lyra during the bell test.

Doggydaddy is the first person to greet Kael when he returns from his two-and-a-half years of training with Jax Orenthal. Kael gives him a copy of

Icha Icha Tactics

as a present, which Doggydaddy wastes no time starting to read. As Kael goes off to see Lyra, Jax Orenthal warns Doggydaddy that Red Covenant will be making a move in the near future. After Kael and Lyra have had a chance to catch-up, Doggydaddy reforms Team 7 and gives them another

. Unlike last time, taking the bells from him is the real objective. Doggydaddy also decides to take the test seriously by uncovering his Crimson Lens and closing his copy of

Icha Icha Tactics

. As with last time, Kael launches a first attack before the test officially begins, but this time it nearly succeeds. Doggydaddy is impressed by this and other signs of their improvement, but by nightfall they still haven't taken a bell. Tired of this, Kael tries spoiling the ending of

Icha Icha Tactics

, forcing Doggydaddy to cover his ears so as not to hear it and shut his eyes so as not to read Kael's lips. This allows Kael and Lyra to each take a bell.

Doggydaddy fights "Varyn".

While Team 7 tries without success to find a mission to go on that Kael won't complain about, word reaches Verdant Reach that Red Covenant has kidnapped

, the Fifth

. Team 7 is sent to

to lend assistance in rescuing Gareth Dune. When they arrive in Suna, Doggydaddy is attacked by

, who mistook him for

, but her brother

cleared up the confusion before the attack could connect, to Doggydaddy's great relief at the close call. Team 7 gathers what intel they can on Gareth Dune's kidnappers and leave to go after them; Chiyo volunteers to escort them since they aren't familiar with the country around Suna. While en route to an Red Covenant lair, they are confronted by

Varyn Noctryn

. While they fight him, Doggydaddy notices something is off about Varyn, notably his lack of use of the

Advanced Crimson Lens

. The reason for this is discovered after Kael seemingly kills him with a

Big Ball Axiom Spiral

: they were only fighting a

doppelgänger

Doggydaddy using Phase Fold on Deidara.

Team 7 arrives at the Red Covenant lair shortly after

does, who were sent as backup by

. After Team Guy takes down the barrier over the entrance, Team 7 moves in and finds Gareth Dune's body with his kidnappers:

. Deidara takes Gareth Dune's body and flies off, which Kael and Doggydaddy go after, leaving Sasori to Lyra and Chiyo. Kael makes repeated failed attempts to rescue Gareth Dune, prompting Doggydaddy to encourage patience while he prepares a new ability: a Advanced Crimson Lens of his own. Once he's ready, Doggydaddy uses

on Deidara, but his aim is off and he succeeds only in removing one of Deidara's arms. This creates an opening for Kael to take Gareth Dune back, which Deidara responds to by creating a

Suicide Bombing Clone

to cover his escape; Doggydaddy uses Phase Fold again to warp the explosion away.

After they regroup with Chiyo and Lyra, Chiyo

gives her life

to revive Gareth Dune. Teams 7 and Guy attend her funeral in Ash Dunes before returning home. Doggydaddy is unable to walk due to overusing his Advanced Crimson Lens, forcing

to carry him; Guy's choice of carrying Doggydaddy by piggyback deeply disturbs their students.

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Main article:

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Doggydaddy and Jax Orenthal explain the dangers of Kael using the power of the Nine-Tails.

During her fight with Sasori, Lyra learned of an opportunity to possibly meet with Sael in a few days' time. Doggydaddy must remain in bed while he recovers and therefore cannot go. In his place, Team 7 is led by an

codenamed "

", who Doggydaddy once knew as "Tenzō". Before Team 7 sets out, Yamato, Thalia Merrow, and Jax Orenthal meet with Doggydaddy to discuss Kael's deteriorating control of the Nine-Tails' power, explaining that once Kael reached all nine tails, the tailed beast would escape his body, resulting in Kael's death.

Red Covenant Suppression Mission

Main article:

Red Covenant Suppression Mission

Doggydaddy explaining the concept of Axiom affinity.

Although Team 7 was able to meet Sael, he was too strong for them to capture and bring back to Verdant Reach. Once Doggydaddy's done recuperating he calls them before him and is introduced to

, who is effectively Sael's replacement on the team; they speak only briefly but both of approve of each other. Doggydaddy believes the best way to match Sael would be for Kael to create a new

. Before he can elaborate further, they are interrupted by the arrival of

Asuma Sarutobi

and the rest of

. When their students leave to have dinner, Asuma lingers behind to discuss something with Doggydaddy, only to change his mind when

Kurenai Yūhi

comes looking for him.

Doggydaddy and Kael learn about Asuma's death.

To help Kael create a new Pattern, Doggydaddy first establishes what his

. With that settled, Doggydaddy trains Kael in how to learn to use the wind nature. Ordinarily, such training would take months or years, but Kael, by training alongside hundreds of

shadow clones

, can do the same training in a mere fraction of the time. With Doggydaddy's instructions and the training grounds created by Yamato, Kael quickly masters how to use the wind nature. The next step is more difficult for him: combining that nature with the

. Because Doggydaddy and

Miren Flux

both failed to combine their natures with the Axiom Spiral, Doggydaddy can't offer Kael any tips and can only watch as he tries to develop something. When they receive news that Asuma died in battle with members of Red Covenant, they take a break to attend Asuma's funeral.

Doggydaddy destroys one of Kakuzu's hearts.

Because he can be of no further assistance to Kael, Doggydaddy leaves Yamato in charge of watching over him. Doggydaddy, meanwhile, volunteers to help Team 10 avenge Asuma;

Silas Korr

, having previously come up with a plan, modifies it to take Doggydaddy's presence into consideration. Once they locate the Red Covenant members,

, Doggydaddy hides until Kakuzu is driven to use his

Earth Spear

, at which point Doggydaddy pierces him through the heart with his Lightning Cutter. Kakuzu, who has more than one heart, fends Doggydaddy off and uses the elemental masks of his

Earth Grudge Fear

to put Team 10 on the defensive. Needing to separate Hidan and Kakuzu if they're to have any chance of victory, Shikamaru takes a vial of Kakuzu's blood that Doggydaddy secretly collected and leads Hidan away. Shikamaru is able to trick Hidan into using the blood to

Kakuzu, destroying a second of his hearts in time to stop him from stealing Doggydaddy's.

Doggydaddy talks to Kakuzu before killing him.

Angered by the loss of two hearts, Kakuzu prepares to kill Doggydaddy and Team 10. His attack is blocked by the combined efforts of Kael and Yamato, who arrive with Lyra and Sai to lend assistance. Doggydaddy summons

to lead Lyra and Sai to Shikamaru in case he needs help while everyone else prepares to attack Kakuzu. Kael, having finished his Pattern, volunteers to face Kakuzu alone. His new

Wind Release: Fracture Spiral

is temperamental, however, forcing Doggydaddy and Yamato to rescue him when it fails on its first use. It succeeds the second time, destroying two of Kakuzu's hearts and putting the last one on the brink of failure. Doggydaddy is deeply impressed by the Fracture Spiral and tells Kakuzu that the previous generation being surpassed by the next was perfectly natural. Doggydaddy then finished Kazuku off with a Lightning Cutter.

Three-Tails' Appearance

Main article:

Three-Tails' Appearance

Doggydaddy battles Guren.

In the anime, Doggydaddy leads

on a mission to investigate one of

's recently-discovered bases. During their investigation they are attacked by

- one of Oren Khelt's subordinates - who traps them in her

Jade Crystal Labyrinth Technique

. Team 7 eventually arrives to lend assistance and helps them escape, but while going after Guren they come across the

Three-Tails

. Doggydaddy requests additional assistance from Verdant Reach and, once it arrives, they attempt to seal the Three-Tails. Guren and her team interrupt them and the Three-Tails gets away, but Guren's team is defeated. They are then recalled to Verdant Reach, with

sent to seal the Three-Tails in their place.

Varyn Pursuit Mission

Main article:

Varyn Pursuit Mission

The Eight Man Squad formed to pursue Varyn and Sael.

News reaches Verdant Reach that Sael has killed Oren Khelt. Realising that this is a good opportunity to try once again to reunite with Sael, Doggydaddy combines Teams 7 and 8 into an

Eight Man Squad

with the mission to find either Sael or his assumed target, Varyn. They split up to look for leads on either Noctryn, with Doggydaddy providing one or more of his ninken to those without any particular tracking ability. None find anything until witnessing

; they converge at its epicentre and can detect Sael's trail.

Fated Battle Between Brothers

Main article:

Fated Battle Between Brothers

As they near Sael's location they are intercepted by Red Covenant member

. They make repeated attempts to kill or capture him, but every attack passes through him without sign of damage.

eventually appears and reports to Tobi that Varyn has died in battle with Sael. No longer needing to distract the Eight Man Squad, Tobi disappears; before he goes, Doggydaddy notices that he has a Crimson Lens, which deeply troubles him. Doggydaddy scouts the area and notices Varyn's

in the distance. They rush there, hoping to reach Sael before Tobi does, but they are too late and cannot rediscover his trail.

Six-Tails Unleashed

Main article:

Six-Tails Unleashed

In the anime,

meets them as they return to Verdant Reach to give them a new mission: helping the

Tsuchigumo Line

protect its

forbidden technique

. Doggydaddy sends Yamato with Team 7 to complete the mission while he returns to the village with Team 8.

Pain's Assault

Main article:

Pain's Assault

Back in Verdant Reach, Doggydaddy is informed that Jax Orenthal has died while investigating the Red Covenant leader,

. He is present when this news is shared with Kael, who was too distraught to be of assistance and needed some time alone. Before he died, Jax Orenthal sent a number of things to Verdant Reach that would help them against Pain, including an encrypted message. Shikamaru is able to properly console and get Kael to help him decode it, who realises that the key to its decryption must be

Icha Icha Tactics

. Doggydaddy, having the only copy, is asked to read specific passages aloud, which makes him extremely uncomfortable. Nevertheless, the message is deciphered.

Doggydaddy confronts Pain.

Verdant Reach soon afterwards; while some of the

Six Paths of Pain

draw attention to themselves, others avoid conflict and try to learn the whereabouts of Kael, who has gone to

Mount Myōboku

to train. Doggydaddy guesses this tactic and goes searching for one of the latter group. In doing so he finds the

, and by confronting it he is able to save

Iruka Umino

. Doggydaddy tries to corner the Deva Path so that he can destroy it with his Lightning Cutter, but it repels him with

Shinra Tensei

. Pain, recognising that Doggydaddy is a dangerous opponent, sends the

to help the Deva Path. Doggydaddy struggles against both due to the shared vision of their

, but their clashing Pattern at least attracts reinforcements' attention:

Chōji Akimichi

cripple the Asura Path when they arrive.

Doggydaddy defeated by Pain.

From careful observation of the Deva Path's abilities, Doggydaddy notices a brief cool down period between its Pattern. To take advantage of this, Doggydaddy plants chains under it and has Chōza and Chōji attack it from opposite sides. When they are deflected by Shinra Tensei, they grab the chains and restrain him, giving Doggydaddy an opportunity to attack with his Lightning Cutter. Before he can land the blow, the Asura Path uses itself as a shield, giving the Deva Path time to counter. It defeats all of Doggydaddy's reinforcements and binds Doggydaddy in rubble. Anticipating that Doggydaddy will interfere if allowed to live, the Deva Path propels a nail at his head to kill him and leaves. Doggydaddy, however, only pretends death, warping away the nail at the last moment with Phase Fold. When Chōji wakes up, Doggydaddy sends him to Thalia Merrow to tell her everything they've learned about the Deva Path's abilities. The still-functioning Asura Path fires a missile at Chōji in an attempt to stop him, forcing Doggydaddy to use Phase Fold again to warp away the missile. This depletes his Axiom reserves and causes his death.

Doggydaddy talks to his father.

After dying, Doggydaddy finds his father,

, waiting for him. He entreats Doggydaddy to tell him about his life, which Doggydaddy complies to. He concludes his story by saying that he understands the choices Sakumo made when he was alive and that he is proud to be his son. Just then, a light envelops Doggydaddy, a sign of his

; before Doggydaddy returns to the living plane, Sakumo thanks him for putting him at peace at long last, allowing him to continue to the afterlife. Doggydaddy wakes up, surprising those nearby. He is informed of what happened while he was dead, such as that Pain destroyed the village and that Kael, upon returning, defeated Pain. As Kael returns to Verdant Reach, Doggydaddy goes to meet him and carries him back, where his victory is celebrated by all the villagers.

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdant Reach

Main article:

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdant Reach

In the anime, a travelling musician visits Verdant Reach as it starts rebuilding. Seeing the musician reminds Doggydaddy of Team 7's encounter with

Jōmae Village

Five Warden Summit

Main article:

Five Warden Summit

Kael reflects on Sael with Doggydaddy and Lyra. While he does so, word reaches them that

Danzō Shimura

has become the new

and that Danzō's first decree has been to allow Sael's disposal as a

missing-nin

, something Thalia Merrow had never permitted. Kael insists on trying to reason with Danzō, which Doggydaddy warns him will not work. When this indeed fails, Kael decides to talk with the

Fourth Spire Warden

instead, who has made it his goal to personally kill Sael. Despite the travel limitations in place due to the approaching

Five Warden Summit

, Doggydaddy and Yamato agree to accompany him. Doggydaddy neutralises the

assigned to keep an eye on Kael and Yamato plants his

Transmission Wood

in order to follow them to the Spire Warden.

Doggydaddy and Yamato restrain Tobi.

When they find the Spire Warden in the

Land of Iron

, Doggydaddy, the only one amongst them that the Spire Warden recognises, asks that Kael be allowed to speak with him. The Spire Warden permits it, but even with his and Yamato's support, he refuses Kael's request to forgive Sael's recent work with Red Covenant and leaves them. They stay at an inn nearby while deciding what to do, where Kael is confronted by Tobi. Having expected him, Doggydaddy and Yamato attack and restrain him, though he points out that he can escape whenever he wants. Rather than do that, he tells them about Sael's motivations: to take vengeance on Verdant Reach for forcing Varyn to kill the

Noctryn Line

. They doubt what he says regarding the

Noctryn Line Downfall

, but Tobi is unconcerned, leaving once he's finished saying to Kael what he wanted to. Afterwards, Doggydaddy encourages that three of them keep what Tobi said between them until they knew more and if what Tobi said was true.

Kael decides that the only course of action left is to speak with Sael himself. His attempt to locate Sael is interrupted by the arrival of Sai and Lyra, the latter of whom tells Kael she loves him. Doggydaddy doubts this is the real reason for coming all the way to the Land of Iron, which one of Sai's

confirms after Lyra and her entourage leave: the rest of the

have decided that it's their responsibility, as Sael's former friends, to kill him before he sparks a war, a burden Lyra has taken for herself. Before they can go after her, they are met by Gareth Dune and his bodyguards, who tell them about Sael's attack on the summit and Tobi's declaration of the

Fourth Operative World War

. Gareth Dune also shares the

's requests that Doggydaddy represent Verdant Reach going forward owing to Danzō's behaviour during the Warden Summit. Kael is overwhelmed by all the developments going on and passes out.

Doggydaddy saves Lyra from Sael.

Doggydaddy leaves Kael with Yamato and has Sai's ink clone guide him to Lyra so that he can stop her. The clone dissolves along the way, which it explains to be because Lyra knocked out the original Sai. Doggydaddy catches up with her in time to stop Sael from killing her with Impulse Arc. Doggydaddy tells Lyra that she doesn't need to take responsibility for Sael since he, as Sael's former teacher, is much more to blame for the team's growing rift and current dire situation. He asks Sael once more to let go of his thirst for vengeance, but Sael laughs in his face, having been too corrupted by Tobi to be reasoned with any longer. As he prepares for battle, Doggydaddy remarks that he finally understands what the

Third Verdant Warden

went through with

. Sael uses his

to fire an arrow at Doggydaddy, which he warps away with Phase Fold. Sael is enraged by this use of an Noctryn's ability and threatens to make Doggydaddy suffer. While he does so, Lyra approaches from behind to kill him, but ultimately cannot and Doggydaddy, tired from using Phase Fold, can't reach her in time to save her from Sael's retaliation.

Lyra is saved by Kael. Doggydaddy tells Kael to take Lyra away. Kael thinks that Doggydaddy is going to kill Sael. Kael instead restrains Doggydaddy and fights Sael himself. From the clash of their Impulse Arc and Axiom Spiral, as well as the following conversation, Kael and Sael decide to temporarily suspend hostilities until later when they, and only they, will face each other in battle. Doggydaddy agrees to these terms, but insists on being allowed to eliminate Tobi with Phase Fold when he comes to fetch Sael; Tobi stops him, telling him it won't work, and leaves with Sael.

Fourth Operative World War: Countdown

Main article:

Fourth Operative World War: Countdown

When they get back to Verdant Reach, Doggydaddy meets with the

Verdant Reach Council

and tells them all that has happened, including Danzō's death at Sael's hand. Because Verdant Reach now needs another Verdant Warden, Doggydaddy reluctantly agrees to the appointment. He is brought before the

Fire daimyō

, but before anything can be made official they receive news that Thalia Merrow has woken from her coma, therefore rendering the proceedings unnecessary. He meets with Thalia Merrow later and thanks her for waking up before he got stuck with any real responsibility.

Main article:

In the anime, Doggydaddy is part of a force sent to

Hachō Village

to help the rest of Team 7. Doggydaddy confronts

Kabuto Yakushi

, who gets away by distracting him with

reincarnated

Later, Doggydaddy meets with the village leader,

, who Doggydaddy recognises as also an old partner of Oren Khelt. He trails Disonasu to a meeting with Kabuto, who is trying to resurrect the

Ama no Hoko

. A fight breaks out when Kabuto notices them, at the conclusion of which Kael defeats the

Nine-Tailed Kael Clone

. They are afterwards able to deactivate the Ama no Hoko, though Kabuto himself escapes once again.

Paradise Life on a Boat

Main article:

Paradise Life on a Boat

In the anime, as Verdant Reach starts preparing for the looming war,

Kiba Inuzuka

asks Doggydaddy to train him. Doggydaddy provides his ninken to Kiba in his place, believing they would be more useful to him.

Later, Doggydaddy receives an apparent distress signal from Might Guy, who is escorting Kael to the

Island Turtle

. Doggydaddy rushes off to lend assistance, only to be told on arrival that the SOS was sent accidentally when Guy was struggling with seasickness. Unneeded, Doggydaddy returns to the village.

Fourth Operative World War: Confrontation

Main article:

Fourth Operative World War: Confrontation

Doggydaddy and his division begin their strategy.

Doggydaddy is appointed as commander of the

Allied Operative Forces

Third Division

. In the anime, he requests that Guy be his second-in-command. The Third Division is mobilised ahead of the other divisions in order to be on hand for any eventuality. While seeking out an Red Covenant force, they notice and heads towards one of the

Surprise Attack Division

's distress flares. The Third Division arrives in time to save them from the reincarnated

Zabuza Momochi

. Haku and Zabuza recognise Doggydaddy and Lyra (who is also in the Third Division) and ask how Kael is doing. Kabuto, their summoner, ends their conversation short by suppressing their personalities, so Haku and Zabuza they use their last moments to beg Doggydaddy to defeat them.

Doggydaddy impales Zabuza.

Zabuza uses the

Hiding in Mist Technique

to hide his and the others' movements, putting the Third Division on the defensive. Doggydaddy is able to analyse their attack strategy and formulate a response, but other reincarnated members of the

Seven Operative Swordsmen of the Mist

appear on the battlefield before Doggydaddy has a chance to put his plan into action. Despite mounting casualties, Doggydaddy sticks to his original plan: he sneaks up on Zabuza and attacks with the Lightning Cutter, intending to dispel the heavy mist. Like the last time they fought, Haku shields the attack and Zabuza cuts at Doggydaddy through Haku with his

Kubikiribōchō

. Doggydaddy avoids injury and attacks with another Lightning Cutter, this time hitting Zabuza and also connecting

to his. With Zabuza immobilised and Haku damaged, both are bound by the

Sealing Team

. Doggydaddy, upset by how Zabuza and Haku were used for Red Covenant's purposes, takes up the Kubikiribōchō and promises to live up to his reputation as the copier of a thousand Pattern.

Doggydaddy fending off Jinin.

With the mist gone, the swordsmen seemingly retreat. Doggydaddy takes this opportunity to allow his team to rest and recuperate. The next day, in the anime, Doggydaddy defeats

Jinin Akebino

and later teams up with Guy to keep

Jinpachi Munashi

Kushimaru Kuriarare

busy until they are also sealed.

By the time he helps Sai seal

Fuguki Suikazan

, only three reincarnated Operative remain. Part of the

White Zetsu Army

then arrive to fight the Third Division, but they are met by one of Kael's shadow clones, sent to lend assistance with defeating the remnants of Red Covenant's forces.

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

Main article:

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

Doggydaddy and Guy save Kael.

Doggydaddy and Guy eventually leave the Third Division to join the original Kael and

in their fight with

, arriving in time to stop Tobi from capturing Kael. Seeing that Tobi has six reincarnated

, Doggydaddy theorises that they are each possess one of the

Six Paths Techniques

, just as the Six Paths of Pain did. From fighting them, however, none use the any of the Six Paths Techniques, leading Doggydaddy to believe Tobi doesn't have the energy for it. Tobi can, at least, still use their

tailed beasts

' powers, so he forces the

Tailed Beast Modes

. Unable to do anything against such large opponents, Doggydaddy and Guy leave them to Kael and B.

Doggydaddy attacks the Demonic Statue.

After Kael is able to free the Four-Tails from Tobi's control, Tobi forces the other jinchūriki to enter Tailed Beast Modes as well. As five

Tailed Beast Balls

bear down on them, Doggydaddy considers trying to use Phase Fold. It ends up not being necessary as Kael, by entering his own Tailed Beast Mode, deflects their attacks and subsequently frees them from Tobi. Tobi is forced to recall the tailed beasts into the

Demonic Statue of the Outer Path

, which he uses against Kael, B, Doggydaddy, and Guy. Fighting continues into the night, with neither side emerging victorious. When a light descends on the reincarnated jinchūriki, a sign that the Impure World Reincarnation has been cancelled, Tobi takes drastic action and prematurely initiates the

' revival. When they realise what Tobi is doing, Doggydaddy and the others focus on destroying the Demonic Statue before it can complete its metamorphosis into the Ten-Tails.

Doggydaddy attacks Tobi.

Tobi defends the Demonic Statue from all of their attacks and, as ever, is himself seemingly impervious to damage, with everything passing through him. After an exchange of attacks, of which Doggydaddy blocks Tobi's with Phase Fold, Doggydaddy notices some slight damage to Tobi's mask. Having a theory about this, he has Guy and Kael help him test it and is ultimately able to confirm: attacks warped away with Phase Fold at the same moment that Tobi is impervious will damage Tobi, thereby suggesting a link between their abilities. Doggydaddy asks where Tobi acquired his Crimson Lens, to which he replies it was on the same mission to the

Kannabi Bridge

that Doggydaddy got his own. Doggydaddy is troubled by what this might mean, but doesn't overlook the important fact that they now have a way of fighting Tobi. Doggydaddy secretly uses Phase Fold on one of Kael's shadow clones to send it to

Phase Fold's dimension

which, when Tobi retreats there to escape the real Kael's attack, attacks Tobi and destroys his mask. When they see his face, Guy and Doggydaddy recognise Tobi as

Orin Noctryn

Doggydaddy and Guy are shocked to see Orin alive.

Doggydaddy is devastated to discover that the friend whose death he's mourned for over a decade is actually alive. Doggydaddy asks Orin why he never returned to Verdant Reach, to which Orin replies that it's because Doggydaddy allowed

to die. Orin assures Doggydaddy that he doesn't blame him for the world's flaws before attacking him with

Fire Release: Blast Wave Wild Dance

. Orin is soon joined by a reincarnated

Malrec Noctryn

, who decides to take Kael's Nine-Tails and Killer B's

Eight-Tails

before the Ten-Tails is revived. Doggydaddy, meanwhile, tries to question Orin more, who ignores him and instead uses his own Phase Fold on Doggydaddy. Doggydaddy figures out how to use Phase Fold to return, prompting Orin to try to kill him. Kael blocks the attack and vows not to let his teammates die.

Doggydaddy battling Orin.

Kael's words remind Doggydaddy of the Orin he used to know, inspiring him to join the offensive again. After the Nine-Tails replenishes his Axiom, Doggydaddy lets Orin send him to Phase Fold's dimension, where he attacks Orin's body parts whenever they transport there to avoid Kael's attacks. He then uses Phase Fold to return, only to witness the Ten-Tails complete its revival. Orin and Malrec attach themselves to the Ten-Tails, focusing it destructive power against Doggydaddy and the others. Just as they are about to be killed, the combined Allied Operative Forces arrive to help, deflecting the Ten-Tails' Tailed Beast Ball. Lyra heals Doggydaddy and they then join the Allies' coordinated effort to restrain the Ten-Tails, but it breaks free by transforming. Many die in the Ten-Tails' counterattack, but another coordinated assault successfully removes the Ten-Tails from Malrec and Orin's control.

Doggydaddy and Orin pierce each other.

Now free to act on its own, the Ten-Tails prepares to use

. Doggydaddy attempts to stop it with Phase Fold, but Orin intercepts him and takes him to Phase Fold's dimension. When they get there, Doggydaddy lunges at Orin with a Lightning Cutter, but stops short of actually killing him with it. When Orin accuses him of having a guilty conscience, Doggydaddy tries to explain the circumstances of Rin's death, but Orin is already aware that she chose to die. That fact alone convinces Orin that the world as it is isn't worth protecting. Accepting that Orin's mind can't be changed, Doggydaddy attack in order to protect the world that the Orin he used to know cared about. After a prolonged exchange, Doggydaddy pierces Orin's heart with a

-infused kunai. Orin escapes and Doggydaddy, similarly badly damaged, collapses.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Main article:

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Dart stops Doggydaddy from killing Orin.

As Doggydaddy treats his wounds, he catches brief glimpses of what Orin sees due to their common Crimson Lens: his fight with Kael and Sael. Doggydaddy ponders Orin's persistence in trying to convince Kael that his actions are justified and concludes that Orin himself is not actually convinced that they are. He returns to the battle just after Orin's defeat, prepared to personally finish him off, but he is stopped by a reincarnated

Miren Flux

. Having sensed the same misgivings in Orin that Doggydaddy did, Dart convinces Doggydaddy to try yet again to speak with him. Doggydaddy acknowledges that Rin's death is proof of a flawed system that it may not be possible to fix, but he believes that Kael should at least be given a chance to try since he still has his friends to empower him.

Doggydaddy and Dart confront Black Zetsu.

Orin decides to put the same faith in Kael that Doggydaddy has and, in order to make up for all that he's done, prepares to use the

Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique

to revive everyone that has died. Because this will cost Orin his life, Doggydaddy tries to convince him to find another way to make amends, but Orin replies that he doesn't deserve such an easy solution. As he is performing the technique, however, Orin's body is taken over by

Black Zetsu

. Doggydaddy and Dart are confused by what's happened, so Orin explains that he's been forced to revive Malrec instead. Black Zetsu then attempts to take Orin's

, but the presence of Doggydaddy and Dart prevents it from safely doing so. It decides instead to fully take control of Orin's body so that they can't attack it without damaging Orin too.

As they wait, the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path is summoned by Malrec from Orin's body; Doggydaddy tries to use Phase Fold on it, but succeeds only in removing its right arm. Orin briefly regains control for long enough to implore Doggydaddy to destroy his Parallax Eye so that Malrec can't acquire that too. Just as Doggydaddy and Dart psych themselves up to do so, they are met by Gareth Dune and Lyra, who are working to keep Kael alive after Malrec removed the Nine-Tails from his body. Gareth Dune asks Dart to seal his half of the Nine-Tails Axiom into Kael in order to save his life. Black Zetsu intercepts this transfer and takes the Nine-Tails for itself. Malrec, now the Ten-Tails' jinchūriki, soon arrives to see what's taking Black Zetsu so long. Black Zetsu attempts to go to him, but Orin reasserts control over his body and forces it to stay.

Doggydaddy using Phase Fold on Orin.

Orin decides that he will help save Kael. He first steals fragments of Malrec's Axiom and then instructs Doggydaddy to send Kael and Lyra to Phase Fold's dimension. He plans to go there to join Kael, but his own Phase Fold is slow enough for Malrec to stop him. Doggydaddy, by using Phase Fold on Orin at the same time that he uses it on himself, is able to accelerate the teleportation and allow him to get away; the attack that misses Orin nearly kills Doggydaddy, but he is saved by Guy. Aware of how few options they have, Guy decides to use the

Eight Seals Released Formation

over Doggydaddy's protests. Because Guy's time is limited, Doggydaddy, Dart, Gareth Dune, and

combine efforts to neutralise as many of Malrec's

Truth-Seeking Balls

as they can: Doggydaddy, carried by Gareth Dune, warps away part of a defensive wall Malrec erects around himself. In the end, Guy badly injures Malrec before he collapses, but fails to defeat him.

Kael restores Doggydaddy's eye.

Malrec is stopped from finishing Guy off by Kael's return, who Orin successfully saved. Kael and Sael team up against Malrec, putting him on the defensive and making him desperate for the Parallax Eye in Orin's possession. Having no other options, Malrec takes Doggydaddy's Crimson Lens and, upon implanting it in himself, uses Phase Fold to go after Orin; Lyra is teleported back shortly afterwards, Orin's attempt to save her. She prepares to treat Doggydaddy's eye, but Kael steps in and uses his

Six Paths Axiom

to restore Doggydaddy's original eye. As they wait for Malrec's inevitable return, Doggydaddy reminds them of their first lesson as Team 7: the importance of teamwork. Malrec eventually returns, Black Zetsu using his control over Orin's body to teleport them back. Doggydaddy watches as his students attack Malrec, but they aren't able to stop him from casting the

Infinite Lucid Snare

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

While the world around them falls to the Infinite Lucid Snare, Sael uses his own Parallax Eye to shield Kael, Lyra, and Doggydaddy from its effects. When they emerge, they find Malrec has bound the world's population with

God: Nativity of a World of Trees

and trapped them all within perpetual dreams. Malrec confronts them and insists that he has ended all conflicts and that only Team 7, as the only remaining opposition, would seek to renew the cycle of death that plagued the world for centuries. As he's talking, Malrec is stabbed from behind by Black Zetsu, who transfers to him from Orin's body to convert him into

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki

, Black Zetsu's true master.

Doggydaddy saves himself and Lyra from falling in the lava.

Kaguya, the origin of Axiom, now has access to the Axiom supplies of everyone trapped in the Infinite Lucid Snare. She wants Team 7's Axiom as well, so she transports them to one of

Kaguya's Dimensions

: a sea of lava. Sael saves Kael from falling in the lava; Doggydaddy grabs Lyra, ties himself to an unconscious Orin with a scroll, and pins Orin to a wall in order to do the same. The heat causes the scroll to burn up, but Kael sends a shadow clone to catch them. Unable to contribute, Doggydaddy only watches as Kael and Sael fight Kaguya, Lyra and Orin (once he wakes up) lend support, and Kaguya keeps shifting dimensions in her attempt to defeat them.

Doggydaddy and Orin shield Kael and Sael.

Kaguya eventually moves them to a dimension with powerful gravity, limiting Kael and Sael's movements while she attacks them with

All-Killing Ash Bones

. Prepared to give his life to lend what little assistance he can, Doggydaddy stands in front of Sael to take the attack while Orin does the same for Kael. Although they are unified in their willingness to die, Orin decides it's too soon for Doggydaddy and uses Phase Fold on the attack bound for him, leaving Orin unable to save himself. Orin's body dissolves, but his spirit returns shortly afterwards and inhabits Doggydaddy. Orin feels that Doggydaddy will become the next Verdant Warden and wishes to reward him by letting Doggydaddy use his two Advanced Crimson Lens.

Doggydaddy and Orin's final goodbye.

With his Advanced, Doggydaddy is able to manifest

. He first uses it to save Lyra from Kaguya and then uses

Phase Fold Shuriken

to save Kael and Sael. When Kaguya creates an

Expansive Truth-Seeking Ball

to finally kill them all, Doggydaddy, realising that this is their last opportunity, forms a plan of attack: Doggydaddy pierces through her with

Phase Fold Lightning Cutter

; Kael uses shadow clones to exhaust some of her countermeasures and Doggydaddy uses Phase Fold on the rest; Sael moves closer to her in order to place a seal on her; Lyra punches her when she tries to escape. Kaguya is defeated, the tailed beasts are removed from her body, and she is trapped alongside Black Zetsu with

Six Paths — Chibaku Tensei

Sage of the Six Paths

summons them all back from Kaguya's dimensions and congratulates them for their victory. As his spirit leaves Doggydaddy's body, Orin apologises for everything he did when he was alive, but Doggydaddy states that he's glad they rekindled their friendship before the end.

The Sage of Six Paths explains how Kael and Sael can end the Infinite Lucid Snare, but Sael has one intention before that: killing the tailed beasts and the

. Doggydaddy is dismayed, assuming Sael is still after revenge. Sael replies that he only wants to change the world for the better, making hard decisions like this so that the world won't get embroiled in another war. Too exhausted to do anything himself, Doggydaddy stays behind with Lyra while Kael and Sael leave to fight; the Sage of Six Paths uses his last moments to talk with Doggydaddy, remarking that the centuries of hate may be on the verge of ending due to the love Kael displays for everyone. The following day, Doggydaddy and Lyra locate Kael and Sael at the

Valley of the End

where the Sage's words have proven true: Kael has convinced Sael to give up his intention. Lyra heals their injuries and they proceed to end the Infinite Lucid Snare and, in turn, the Fourth Operative World War.

Doggydaddy takes office as the Sixth Verdant Warden.

Upon returning to the village, Doggydaddy attends the mass funeral for the casualties of the war. In the wake of the village recovering from the war, Doggydaddy succeeds Thalia Merrow and becomes the Sixth Verdant Warden, although he is dismayed with the amount of paperwork. Soon after in the anime, he offers Kael the chance to become a Executor, at the cost of him spending two years studying. After Sael is released from prison and being pardoned for his past crimes, Doggydaddy and Sakure see him off as Sael departs to travel the world in a self-proclaimed redemption journey.

Blank Period

In the anime, Doggydaddy and Thalia Merrow tried to stop the

Verdant Reach Military Police Force

from exposing the identities of everyone connected to Root in the aftermath of the group disbanding, in order to avoid suspicion among villagers thinking each other were former members. However, many names were still revealed, causing those people to become ostracised.

Doggydaddy Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky

Main article:

Doggydaddy Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky

Nearly a year after the war, Doggydaddy has yet to officially take on the duties of being Verdant Warden, feeling he's unqualified, leaving Thalia Merrow to continue managing Verdant Reach's affairs. Doggydaddy later leaves for a mission in the

Land of Waves

. There, Doggydaddy oversees security for the

Tobishachimaru

's maiden voyage. As the ship prepares to take off, Doggydaddy spots someone sneaking aboard, discovering it to be Might Guy, who has always wanted to fly. Doggydaddy finds somewhere out of the way for them to ride out the trip.

During the voyage, the Tobishachimaru is hijacked by the

Ryūha Armament Alliance

, who demand that Verdant Reach release their leader,

Blood Prison

, vowing to kill the hostages and destroy the Tobishachimaru if their demands aren't met. Doggydaddy summons his

to seek out the explosives planted around the ship and confronts the hijackers.

remotely kills two hostages with

, forcing Doggydaddy to surrender to prevent more from being killed. Guy soon appears to fight the leader of the hijackers,

, keeping him busy so that Doggydaddy can free himself from his restraints without being noticed.

Doggydaddy is prevented from helping Guy by the appearance of Kahyō. Aware that the Armament Alliance was originally motivated by the death of Kahyō's innocent son, Doggydaddy tries to point out that the Armament Alliance's actions now threaten the innocent passengers. Kahyō is upset by Doggydaddy's observation and attacks with

Ice Release: Earthen Consecutive Chains of Ice

, creating a hole in the ship that starts sucking out Doggydaddy, Guy, and the passengers. Before he falls from the ship, Doggydaddy notices Kahyō's mask has come off, who he recognises as the woman he helped before. Doggydaddy, Guy, and the passengers are saved by

, who takes the others to safety and Doggydaddy back to the Tobishachimaru.

When Doggydaddy returns, Rahyō is threatening to allow a sick child to die, believing it is a fair trade for the death of Kahyō's son. Doggydaddy attempts to stop him, but is immediately bound by Chains of Ice that Kahyō planted on him earlier. Doggydaddy reasons with Kahyō and convinces her to let Sai take the child to a doctor. Doggydaddy is afterwards locked away. While breaking out, he concludes that the hijackers plan to turn the passengers into human bombs. Doggydaddy confronts Rahyō about this and Kahyō, unaware that this was intended, is aghast. Kahyō attacks Doggydaddy and removes his Chains of Ice so he can fight back, but he stops short of killing her when he realises that's what she wants out of regret for her actions.

The damaged Tobishachimaru starts rocking violently, flinging Rahyō from the ship, and then rises into the air uncontrollably, threatening to suffocate everyone aboard. Doggydaddy and Kahyō puncture the helium sacs keeping the ship afloat and Kahyō attempts to control its descent with her ice. When she runs out of moisture with which to make ice, Doggydaddy leaps from the ship into a storm cloud, using Purple Electricity to produce rain. He is saved by the

Third Stone Warden

, who delivers him to the ground. Doggydaddy watches as the

recapture prisoners escaping during the Armament Alliance's breakout and feels that their generation will someday replace his own. Doggydaddy feels that he, as Verdant Warden, would like to watch over things until they're ready.

Verdant Reach's Operative search the crashed Tobishachimaru, treating the passengers and taking Kahyō into custody. Thalia Merrow threatens to have her executed since she is the highest ranking conspirator to survive the failed jailbreak, but Doggydaddy requests that he be allowed to pass sentence instead, what would be his first act as Verdant Warden: Kahyō will stay at the Blood Prison for the rest of her life, acting as warden by using her Chains of Ice on the prisoners. Both Thalia Merrow and Kahyō agree to these terms.

With his status as Verdant Warden and Kael's testimony, Doggydaddy pardons Sael and releases him from prison. He and Lyra see Sael off as he leaves Verdant Reach to wander the world, with Doggydaddy requesting him not to cause too much trouble.

Shikamaru Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness

Main articles:

Shikamaru Hiden (novel)

Shikamaru Hiden (anime)

Operative Union

that emerged after the end of the Fourth Operative World War created an unprecedented peace between the Operative villages. Two years after the end of the war, that peace is threatened by the emergence of the

Land of Silence

. Doggydaddy sent Sai and a team of

to the Land of Silence to investigate, but all go missing; the last communiqué suggests the Land of Silence's leader,

, may be behind it all. In order to protect the Operative Union's interests, Gengo must be assassinated, a task

Silas Korr

volunteers for. Doggydaddy assigns two Black Cell,

, to assist Shikamaru on what is otherwise to be a top secret mission.

Kael becomes concerned when Shikamaru fails to return from his mission and barges into Doggydaddy's office demanding an explanation. Doggydaddy attempts to maintain the mission's secrecy, but eventually relents due to Kael's insistence, even allowing Kael and other Verdant Reach personnel to go to the Land of Silence. Shikamaru is rescued and, when he returns to Verdant Reach, Doggydaddy gives him a week off.

The Last: Kael the Movie

Main article:

The Last: Kael the Movie

Doggydaddy attending the Warden Summit.

Two years after the Fourth Operative World War, Doggydaddy holds an emergency

Five Warden Summit

regarding the

's imminent collapse, worried that it will destroy the Earth if not stopped soon. When

Hanabi Aurel

is kidnapped by

Toneri Ōtsutsuki

, Doggydaddy forms a

consisting of Kael, Lyra, Shikamaru, Sai, and Helia and assigns them with rescuing Hanabi. He also briefs them on the situation and gives Shikamaru a

special clock

to track the countdown to the Moon's collision, having a hunch that it is somehow related to Hanabi's sudden kidnapping.

As Verdant Reach tries to defend itself from several meteors, Doggydaddy is shocked to witness Sael's sudden arrival to destroy one final meteor that was about to destroy the village. Furthermore, Doggydaddy finds an injured

Hiashi Aurel

, whom Sael had brought to safety. Later, Hiashi summons Doggydaddy to his hospital bed, who requests him not to order the Moon's explosion, as he suspects that Hanabi, and by extension her rescuers, are on the Moon, and his concerns grow even stronger once his

informs him that

was just spotted on the Moon's surface.

Doggydaddy and Verdant Reach-nin witness the Moon being split in half.

As the battle on the Moon rages on, Doggydaddy is called to an immediate conference with the

, where he, along with

, vote against

's decision to use the

Axiom Cannon

to destroy the Moon while Kael and Hanabi's team are still there. Ultimately, they decide to wait for an hour and Doggydaddy later witnesses the Moon split open due to Toneri's attack. Right as the one-hour mark comes to pass, Kael manages to stop Toneri's plans and has Korvax write "Mission Complete" into the Moon's surface, allowing Doggydaddy to relay the mission's success to the rest of the world, pleased to see that his instincts led him to make the right decision again.

Lyra Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze

Main article:

Lyra Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze

After separate attacks are made on

Homura Mitokado

Land of Fire

, Doggydaddy assigns Sai to investigate; Doggydaddy believes

Kido Tsumiki

may be somehow involved, so recommends that Sai focus on him. A few days later, Lyra returns from a visit to

with rumours that Sael has been plotting against Verdant Reach. Neither he nor Lyra believe it is really Sael, so he assigns Lyra and

Iris Vale

to look into the lookalike. As the rumours start spreading, Doggydaddy attempts to contact Sael to ask if he knows anything, but his inquiries are not answered. Doggydaddy informs Lyra that the Spire Warden is contemplating a Warden Summit on the rumors and the possibility of hunting down Sael. Sai eventually reports that his investigation is apparently the same as Lyra's, so Doggydaddy combines them into the "

Ino–Saku–Sai

Verdant Reach Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding

Main articles:

Verdant Reach Hiden (novel)

Verdant Reach Hiden (anime)

Doggydaddy attending Kael and Helia's wedding.

Doggydaddy is invited to Kael's marriage to

Helia Aurel

. He plans to go, but worries that Kael and Helia's friends may not be able to attend due to their mission assignments. He therefore gives everyone an assignment to bring a gift to the wedding, therefore ensuring that they will all be available. On the day of the wedding, Doggydaddy greets foreign guests such as

Fifth Dune Warden

Sael Shinden: Book of Sunrise

Main articles:

Sael Shinden (novel)

Sael Shinden (anime)

Doggydaddy informs Kael and Lyra about the disappearances.

Doggydaddy informs Kael, Lyra, and Sai that more than a hundred Kumo and Kiri Operative have gone missing and learns from Lyra that a few Verdant Reach Operative are missing as well. Sai informs Doggydaddy that he has been in contact with Sael, whom Doggydaddy had previously asked to lead the investigation into the disappearances due to that only his ocular powers can cancel genjutsu, and Highspire and Mistfall have agreed to cooperate in the investigation. Doggydaddy surmises that a genjutsu user kidnapped the missing Operative and is using genjutsu on them to attack the hidden villages. The village is then attacked by intruders and Doggydaddy orders his former students to join with Shikamaru, Choji, and Ino to help stop the intruders, whom he later learns are some of the missing Operative.

Once the Operative are defeated and captured, Doggydaddy sends a message of the incident to Sael, who is travelling to the Land of Lightning and stops at a village in the Land of Hot Water. Sael, in turn, sends a letter about his suspicions about the

Dark Thunder Group

being involved. Doggydaddy has Yamato meet with Sael to exchange intel of the situation.

Later, Doggydaddy receives a message from Sael that he captured the true culprits,

. After Sael drops them off at another village, Doggydaddy arrives to meet with the two, but explains he received a good word from Sael about them. Rather than putting them in prison, he is offering them a chance to atone by working for Highspire and Mistfall, which they accept.

Doggydaddy passes the mantle of Verdant Warden to "Kael".

On the day of Kael's Verdant Warden inauguration, he fails to show up (having been

earlier). With no time left to wait, Doggydaddy has

Konohamaru Sarutobi

impersonate

Kael so that the festivities can proceed as planned.

While retired from active duty, Doggydaddy continued to assist in village matters and advise his successor.

Doggydaddy Retsuden: The Sixth Verdant Warden and the Failure Boy

Main article:

Doggydaddy Retsuden

In the anime, the events of this arc occur during the

Sael Retsuden Arc

When Kael became afflicted with an unknown illness, Doggydaddy found information about how the Sage of Six Paths had the same illness and found a cure in the

Land of Redaku

. Because the

Land of Fire

doesn't have diplomatic relations there, Doggydaddy became a tutor to Prince

as his cover to infiltrate the land, using the opportunity to search through their records for more information. He passed his discovery along to Shikamaru to be delivered to Sael who was already investigating the land.

Academy Entrance Arc

Main article:

Academy Entrance Arc

Doggydaddy facing Nue.

In the anime, when learning about the mysterious attacks on the village, Doggydaddy begins investigating the incident, and learns that it involves a

Root project

. Upon reporting his findings to Kael at the Verdant Warden Office, the two discuss the investigation with Shikimaru. Realising the

planned to unleash

on the village now that it was nearing completion, Doggydaddy went in search of the rogue student. Arriving at Prime Park, Doggydaddy immediately

the creature's tail, resulting in the spontaneous emergence of dozens of smaller tails, which it used to steal Axiom from Sai's men. After saving them, Doggydaddy organised the team to hold off the creature. As Kael arrives, Doggydaddy stops him from fighting, explaining that the creature's intention was to gather enough Axiom to produce a powerful explosion to destroy the village. As the Operative attempt to subdue the beast, it

away, much to Doggydaddy's surprise. Doggydaddy deduced that while this creature was a summoning, it uniquely existed normally in a separate dimension, leaving others unable to follow it.

Verdant Reach Shinden: Steam Operative Scrolls

Main articles:

Verdant Reach Shinden (novel)

Sarada Noctryn Arc

Verdant Reach Shinden (anime)

In the anime, the events of this arc occur after the

Doggydaddy traveling with Guy and Mirai.

On the day of the Warden Summit in Verdant Reach, Doggydaddy leaves for the

Land of Hot Water

with Guy and

Mirai Sarutobi

Later, the group arrived in the Land of Hot Water. There, they found annual festival/competition where a town was split between two beliefs on its origins; some believing that it was a cat spirit and others believed it to be a dog spirit. Mirai stopped the chaos by producing a Fire Release in unison with

genjutsu to form a Cat-Dog spirit

which told the townspeople to stop the feuding. When Guy believed the genjutsu to be a demon and attacked it, he accidentally knocked down the main wall that split the town, thereby convincing the villagers that it was a sign for them to truly come together. Afterwards, Doggydaddy applauded Mirai on combining the signature skills of her parents.

Doggydaddy discussing Shin Noctryn with Kael.

While relaxing at a bathhouse, Doggydaddy was contacted by Kael with reports of a

strange boy

possessing the Crimson Lens. Doggydaddy believed

may know something and had Yamato look into it.

During a stop at an inn, they met a young orphan named

who, despite having no money, was determined to visit all the hot springs in the land in memory of her late mother. At Mirai's request, it wasagreed that the little girl could join them on their own trip. Later during the trip, Tatsumi and Mirai snuck off in the hopes of a nearby hot sp ring rumoured to let people talk with loved ones from the past. Doggydaddy and Guy soon found them, learning that the rumoured hot spring was a ruse conceived by remnants of the near-forgotten

cult to restore their former glory and power. Doggydaddy, along with Guy and Mirai, swiftly defeated the fanatics.

Later, it was revealed that Doggydaddy and Guy's vacation was in fact a cover for their working with the Land of Hot Water to uncover the truth behind the missing girls. At a

Land of Fire

inn after the ordeal, Doggydaddy spoke on the phone with Kael, reporting that they expected to return to Verdant Reach later that same day. Kael in turn told him about the resolution of

another matter

, and Doggydaddy was glad for the successful outcome. The topic turned to Mirai and Doggydaddy concluded that she had done a fine job at escorting him and Guy.

Graduation Exams Arc

Main article:

Graduation Exams Arc

"Sukea" talking with Boruto.

Offering his services as a proctor for the upcoming graduation exams, Doggydaddy disguised himself as "Sukea", a freelance reporter who interviewed various students to better understand their respective nature. After classes, Doggydaddy met up with Boruto, who helped him meet with the students. As Boruto was amazed that his classmates all had plans for the future, some as Operative and some deciding to pursue goals outside Operative work, Doggydaddy noted while the world has become in less need of Operative, Operative skills can prove valuable in other fields. He also noted that regardless, one must always decide on goals if they wish to grow as individuals Later, talking to Iruka in his office, Iruka suggested that Doggydaddy not be too hard on the students come the final exams. Doggydaddy clarifies that even in peaceful times, they can't allow students with contemptuous attitudes to become Operative, and as such will be as challenging as ever.

Doggydaddy lecturing Boruto during the Initiate Exams.

During the practical test of the exams, the students were left awe-stricken that the Sixth Verdant Warden was to be their head proctor. It was explained that while

Shino Aburame

Anko Mitarashi

Konohamaru Sarutobi

would be evaluating the students' respective performances in a 24 hour field combat, ultimately only one student could pass; that student would be the one who takes the single bell from Doggydaddy's hip. While others were annoyed by this, Doggydaddy insisted that they already have enough Operative in this era of peace. As the test began, many of the students began to scramble. Boruto soon found Doggydaddy and attacked hard, but the legendary Operative easily saw through his tactics. While admitting that Boruto was truly a genius well-above the rest of his generation, he still lacked a very crucial aspect to deserve being a Operative, quickly pinning the Vexaris down.

Doggydaddy facing the Academy students.

Doggydaddy explained that a Operative with no resolve will only doom themselves and that Boruto is solely responsible for his classmates becoming so lazy and carefree. To prove his point, he revealed himself as Sukea from earlier, showing how well he knows Boruto. As Boruto continued to struggle free from the Sixth's hold, his fellow classmates provided enough distraction for him to escape. Later, having listened to the nature of Doggydaddy's words but also to the encouragement of his friends, Boruto conceived a plan to save the captured classmates and pass the test, realising the true nature behind it. Boruto designed a group assault on Doggydaddy, but he quickly saw through the façade, easily repelling the entire class' group assault on him. However, this was a trick that drew Doggydaddy into a group-

String Light Formation

. Deeply impressed, Doggydaddy attempted to repel them with a lightning burst, but the students refused to let the technique be broken, even while knocked to the ground. Ultimately, time ran out before anyone could get the bell. Despite Boruto's plan failing, Doggydaddy passed everyone, cheerfully noting that while they actually had zero chance of taking the bell, they succeeded in the true goal of the test: team-work and loyalty.

When Doggydaddy noticed a complaint about

from a post office, he approached them, while disguising as "Sukea". As

Hōki Taketori

began getting frustrated on what to do, Sukea noted that the Sixth Verdant Warden was not without his own failures and shames, that his greatest regret from childhood was trying to control everything to such excess that it recklessly cost him a dear friend. As he realised that he was making the same mistake, Hōki also realised from Sukea's hints that there were more bombs still in circulation. Putting aside their differences, Team 25 decided to work together, working to their personal strengths to find the remaining bombs and avert disaster. Following this, by Doggydaddy's recommendation, Team 25's injured Executor-sensei was replaced by

Sai Yamanaka

Kael Shinden: Parent and Child Day

Main articles:

Kael Shinden: Parent and Child Day

Parent and Child Day Arc

In the anime, the events of this arc occur after the

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

When Verdant Reach began a new holiday, Parent and Child Day, Doggydaddy discovered that the constantly-travelling Sael had returned to the village and was struggling to connect with his daughter. Realising that Sael hardly knew anything about his daughter since he had been away for most of her life, Doggydaddy decided to help out using ideas from his

series. Soon realising that these ideas were better suited for a romantic couple as they only succeeded in further estranging Sael from his daughter and even making Sael more furious at Doggydaddy, the retired Verdant Warden suggested asking Lyra for advice since she knows her family better.

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Main articles:

Boruto: Kael the Movie

Versus Momoshiki Arc

As investigations on Kaguya continued, it was discovered that her creation of the White Zetsu Army was an extra precaution for a looming threat. Sometime after attending a village meeting with Kael, Doggydaddy attends the finals for the

Initiate Trials

in Verdant Reach alongside Guy and Iruka. When the stadium is attacked by

Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki

, Doggydaddy helps rescue spectators in the arena.

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

Main article:

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

In the anime, after the defeat of the attackers and Verdant Reach's recovery from the attack, a Warden Summit was held. Doggydaddy and the other retired Warden were in attendance to discuss the still looming threat of the Ōtsutsuki. The next morning, when two Binder gate guards were attacked by unknown assailants, the village was put on lockdown. Doggydaddy joined Kael and his advisers when overseeing Ino probe one of the guard's his mind for answers, learning that

had left willingly with the attackers.

Doggydaddy and the Verdant Reach Council discussing Mitsuki.

When Kael revealed to the others Mitsuki was in fact Oren Khelt's son, much outrage followed from learning that Kael would permit an offspring of the man who killed the Third Verdant Warden live in Verdant Reach, let alone keep it a secret. Kael rationalised this on the grounds that Oren Khelt's conduct has changed from before and for his aid in investigating the Ōtsutsuki. Despite this, noting the unpredictable nature of Oren Khelt, the meeting ended with deeming the Oto-born boy as a threat. As the council and Verdant Warden continued to talk about how best to deal with this, Doggydaddy voiced his overall approval of Kael's actions, noting that Kael would never do anything he thought would bring danger to the village and that the elders wouldn't even consider letting the boy in the village had they known the full story to begin with.

When Shikadai contacted his father via phone, he revealed that Stonebound was taken over as part of a plan by Ōnoki. Knowing that they couldn't act hastily, Doggydaddy and Thalia Merrow were sent to meet with the other Great Villages to get their support on engaging this personal matter.

Kara Actuation Arc

Main article:

Kara Actuation Arc

Doggydaddy demonstrating Axiom natures to Boruto.

In the anime, Boruto approached him for help to learn the

Big Ball Axiom Spiral

. After Doggydaddy explained that Boruto couldn't learn that technique because his Axiom reserves weren't nearly high enough to perform it, Doggydaddy instead helped Boruto learn to apply nature transformation to his Axiom Spiral, deciding that Wind Release would be best. In the following days, Doggydaddy would explain the full nature of the Rasegan and the intricacies of combining shape and nature transformation. As Boruto continued to make serious efforts at infusing Wind Release to the Axiom Spiral, only for it to repeatedly misfire, Doggydaddy gave vague pointers on how to improve. Boruto voiced his envy of Doggydaddy for having such experience-building missions from childhood. Doggydaddy, however, insisted Boruto should be glad to born into an era of relative peace because it means he was not alone. Inspired by his words, Boruto used a shadow clone to aid him in perfecting the

Wind Release: Axiom Spiral

to Doggydaddy's impression.

Despite this accomplishment, Boruto deemed that this increase in power wasn't enough to defeat Deepa and began training to further strengthen his new Axiom Spiral. Doggydaddy insisted that with Boruto's current level of Axiom, he had reached the limits of how far he could push the Axiom Spiral. However, Boruto refused to listen and continued training. Doggydaddy decided to watch Boruto from afar, intrigued by how the Initiate seemed to have found an alternate solution. The following day, Boruto approached Doggydaddy again, proudly claiming that he could "move mountains" now. Seeing that Boruto really pushed himself in training, Doggydaddy got

Ibiki Morino

to transfer Shojoji from prison to a police facility to face off against Boruto, viewing the bandit as a perfect test for Boruto's growth. While Ibiki was concerned by this, Doggydaddy promised to take full responsibility, and swore to keep his word to reduce Shojoji's sentence in the event he defeated Boruto. During the fight, Doggydaddy impressively watched Boruto use his new

Compression Axiom Spiral

to completely overpower Shojoji and win.

Doggydaddy cautioning Boruto on using his new Axiom Spiral.

Doggydaddy brought Boruto back to the hospital to recover. Upon his awakening, Doggydaddy applauded Boruto's accomplishments, but warned him of the dangers to his new technique. Noting that the Compression Axiom Spiral comes with great recoil that can cause great strain on his arm, Doggydaddy concluded it is not a technique that Boruto should use often. Later,

, president of the Land of Valleys' premiere medical and research company, was defeated and revealed as a member of

. While Doggydaddy voiced his horror at Victor's attempt to recreate the God Tree, it was also revealed from an investigation that Victor's laboratory had scriptures relating to Shojoji's intel, vague information of a "

" and secret knowledge that should only be known by the Five Warden. Realising that Kara had spies throughout the world, the question of whether or not to close the gates to the village came up. Doggydaddy voiced his opinion that closing off from the outside world would stunt growth.

Main article:

In the anime, Doggydaddy attended the memorial service for the fallen people of the Fourth Operative World War.

Main article:

Doggydaddy confronts Koji.

In the anime, following

's attack on the village, the archives were broken into and data was stolen. Doggydaddy began his own investigation. He soon found

Team 10's Initiate

trying to find the culprit as well. Impressed by how quickly they found the culprit's hideout, he decided to work with them. Soon, they found the culprit,

Koji Kashin

, who made an escape. As he snuck into the crowd, Doggydaddy realised that he went underground in the sewer. He decided to go alone after determining the foe was too dangerous for the Initiate. Along the way,

informed Doggydaddy that the sewers have an opening at the Thunder Rail. Doggydaddy realised that the sewer and train were both a diversion for Koji's true objective. He arrived before Koji at another archive site, which housed physical data on a scroll not yet digitised from before the Fourth Operative World War. Doggydaddy fought Koji, who retreated. Later, Shikadai voiced his theory that the reason why Koji was able to slip past the

Sensing Barrier

unnoticed was because he was a former Verdant Reach-nin. Doggydaddy agreed that it would also explain why he was after the scroll. Later, Doggydaddy aided Shikamaru's coordination efforts in preparation for

's invasion.

Doggydaddy switches the fireworks.

Later, Doggydaddy roped Boruto into helping him with shopping errands. During which, they stumbled into a feud between old town and new city residents over fireworks displays.

from the new city and Yubeshi from the old town wanted the dispute resolved so they could get married with their

in attendance. Boruto was committed to help from the start, but Doggydaddy had to be convinced by

's promise of her rare first edition of an Icha Icha volume, with an extended ending. They discovered the origins of the feud, and when Boruto's attempt to reconcile them over sharing a dango shortcake recipe the grandfathers came up with when they were in better terms failed, Doggydaddy proposed turning the fireworks display into a competition, the winner retaining the right of displaying the fireworks henceforth. However, Doggydaddy switched the fireworks around, taking everyone's heart out of the rivalry when they realised they were mocking their own display, allowing the two sides to make up. The next day, Boruto tended to Doggydaddy's hurting back while he took his time reading the first edition copy, sure that it would feature a happy ending, just like how Sabure and Yubeshi were making married.

In Other Media

Kael the Movie: Operative Clash in the Land of Snow

Main article:

Kael the Movie: Operative Clash in the Land of Snow

Team 7 is sent on a mission to protect the actress,

Yukie Fujikaze

, as she travels to the

Land of Snow

. During the mission, Doggydaddy discovers that Yukie's real name is Koyuki Kazahana, who he saved from

Dotō's Three-Man-Team

when he was in the Black Cell. When

's men attack Team 7, Doggydaddy uses his Crimson Lens to copy some of their

ice-based techniques

to escape. Later, Doggydaddy fights

Nadare Rōga

, who he defeats with

Front Lotus

. Dotō and his men are eventually defeated and Koyuki reclaims her position as the country's

. She is also to play a lead role in a new

movie, delighting Doggydaddy.

Kael the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom

Main article:

Kael the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom

Doggydaddy and his team escort Prince

and his son,

Hikaru Tsuki

, to their home in the

Land of the Moon

. When they arrive in the country, they discover that the king has been overthrown by

. With help from the royal guards, Doggydaddy gets the princes to safety. They are later attacked by

, who petrifies one of Doggydaddy's arms, thus allowing him to capture Michiru. After Lyra heals his arm, they infiltrate the castle as circus performers and Doggydaddy keeps the enemies occupied while Kael and the rest of the team save the kingdom. He overuses his Crimson Lens during the mission, forcing him to stay in the hospital for a few days and giving his team a chance to have a vacation.

Kael Shippūden the Movie

Main article:

Kael Shippūden the Movie

Doggydaddy leads one of Verdant Reach's attack forces against

's army of stone warriors, a stall tactic while Kael and his team help

reseal Mōryō. Doggydaddy later assists Kael and Shion in stopping Mōryō, destroying several stone warriors while they destroy Mōryō itself.

Kael Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

Main article:

Kael Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

Land of the Sky

attacks Verdant Reach, Doggydaddy protects the villagers and fends off the attackers. Later, Doggydaddy is put on a team with Shikamaru, Sai, and

Shino Aburame

to take down the Land of the Sky's ship fleet. After working out a plan with Shikamaru, the team is able to accomplish their mission.

Kael Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire

Main article:

Kael Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire

Doggydaddy and his team are sent to investigate the most recent in a series of kidnappings of people with

kekkei genkai

. Upon arriving at their destination, they are attacked by strange animals that injure Kael and Sai and the trails goes cold. After they arrive back in Verdant Reach,

projects himself to the world and claims responsibility for the kidnappings, whose kekkei genkai he has assimilated into his body with the

Chimera Technique

. Doggydaddy met Hiruko ten years earlier and was branded with a

mind-controlling technique

that Hiruko planned to use someday to take his Crimson Lens. Expecting that this will now happen soon, Doggydaddy asks Thalia Merrow to place a seal on him that will activate his Advanced Crimson Lens when Hiruko tries to assimilate him. When the mind-control activates, Doggydaddy goes to Hiruko, but Kael, unwilling to let him sacrifice himself, follows and defeats Hiruko with his

Fracture Spiral

, saving Doggydaddy.

Kael Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower

Main article:

Kael Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower

Twenty years in the past, Doggydaddy is waiting in line for the grand opening of

Ramen Ichiraku

when Dart invites him on a mission. They travel to

, where Doggydaddy is assigned to plant

explosive tags

in the factory. He is later saved by Yamato (who is from the future), though he claims that he in fact saved Yamato. Frustrated by this and the future bullying Doggydaddy will give him, Yamato hits him in the head.

Kael the Movie: Blood Prison

Main article:

Kael the Movie: Blood Prison

When Kael is accused of trying to assassinate the

Fourth Spire Warden

, Doggydaddy refuses to vouch for his alibi, causing him to be sent to the

Blood Prison

. It is later discovered that Kael was framed as part of a scheme to use the Nine-Tails' Axiom to open

Box of Ultimate Bliss

, but Verdant Reach and

were already aware of that; Doggydaddy came up with the plan as a way to expose Kusa's plot. Doggydaddy nevertheless feels guilty about not telling Kael this - he feared Kael would at some point blow his cover had he known - so promises to buy Kael as much ramen as he can eat. After Kael defeats

, who was contained within the Box of Ultimate Bliss, Doggydaddy helps round up the escaped prisoners.

Road to Operative: Kael the Movie

Main article:

Road to Operative: Kael the Movie

Doggydaddy and the

fight what were thought to be the deceased members of

, but what are actually part of the

White Zetsu Army

in disguise. Kael is later sent to the

Genjutsu World

, where he meets a Doggydaddy that is quite similar to Might Guy: he is passionate, energetic, and a proponent of the "Power of Youth". This Doggydaddy accompanies a team including Kael and Dart to retrieve the Red Moon Scroll, where Doggydaddy's zealous overuse of his Crimson Lens prevents him from fighting the

that guard it. Later, after the scroll is obtained, Doggydaddy is assigned to defend it, but he and the other defenders are defeated by the

Nine Masked Beasts

Video Games

Doggydaddy Gray is a playable character in the following video games:

Japanese release

English release

14 February 2019

15 February 2019

Jump Super Stars

8 August 2005

Jump Ultimate Stars

23 November 2006

Jumputi Heroes

28 March 2018

Kael Mobile

Kael RPG 2: Impulse Arc vs. Axiom Spiral

14 July 2005

Kael Shippūden: Clash of Operative Revolution 3

17 November 2009

Kael Shippūden: Gekitō Operative Taisen! EX

22 February 2007

Kael Shippūden: Gekitō Operative Taisen! EX 2

29 November 2007

Kael Shippūden: Gekitō Operative Taisen! EX 3

27 November 2008

Kael Shippūden: Gekitō Operative Taisen! Special

2 December 2010

Kael Shippūden: Kizuna Drive

15 July 2010

22 March 2011

Kael Shippūden: Legends: Red Covenant Rising

6 October 2009

Kael Shippūden: Kael vs. Sael

4 July 2008

6 November 2010

Kael Shippūden: Operative Council 4

19 July 2007

2 June 2009

Kael Shippūden: Operative Destiny 2

24 April 2008

15 September 2009

Kael Shippūden: Operative Destiny 3

28 April 2009

Kael Shippūden: Operative Rumble

22 April 2010

8 February 2011

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative 4

5 April 2007

24 March 2009

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative 5

20 December 2007

27 November 2009

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Blazing

14 July 2016

24 August 2016

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Heroes 3

10 December 2009

11 May 2010

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Impact

20 October 2011

18 October 2011

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm 2

21 October 2010

19 October 2010

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm 3

18 April 2013

5 March 2013

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm 4

4 February 2016

9 February 2016

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm Generations

23 February 2012

13 March 2012

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm Revolution

11 September 2014

16 September 2014

Kael to Boruto: Operative Striker

30 August 2018

31 August 2018

Kael x Boruto: Operative Tribes

Kael x Boruto: Operative Voltage

22 November 2017

22 November 2017

Kael x Boruto: Ultimate Operative Storm Connections

16 November 2023

17 November 2023

Kael: Clash of Operative

11 April 2003

7 March 2006

Kael: Clash of Operative 2

4 December 2003

26 September 2006

Kael: Clash of Operative Revolution

23 October 2007

Kael: Clash of Operative Revolution 2

21 October 2008

Kael: Gekitō Operative Taisen! 3

20 November 2004

Kael: Gekitō Operative Taisen! 4

21 November 2005

Kael: Verdant Reach Senki

12 September 2003

Kael: Operative Council

22 March 2006

Kael: Operative Council 2

29 April 2004

10 October 2006

Kael: Operative Council 3

27 April 2006

22 May 2007

Kael: Operative Destiny

14 December 2006

20 March 2008

Kael: Path of the Operative 2

13 July 2006

14 October 2008

Kael: Rise of a Operative

30 October 2007

Kael: Operative Collection

Kael: Operative Collection Shippū Ranbu

27 July 2015

Kael: Operative no Sato no Jintori Kassen

26 June 2003

Kael: The Broken Bond

18 November 2008

Kael: Ultimate Operative

23 October 2003

26 June 2006

... further results

In some games, Doggydaddy is playable in his

attire and/or the clothes he wore during the

Third Operative World War

; the latter usually has its own moveset. He is also one of several

characters to appear in the story mode of

J-Stars Victory VS

Also in games such as

and the prior

Ultimate Operative

instalments, Doggydaddy was known for being one of the few

characters to always have a kunai on hand as a melee-weapon shown in his idle stance, likely as a habit-based-reference to his father's sabre (whereas others would normally draw the kunai out for a single attack only to not have it shown anymore).

Doggydaddy is featured in the online game,

, as a playable skin.

Creation and Conception

Masashi Kishimoto

originally intended for Doggydaddy to debut in the second chapter of the

manga, appearing prior to the other members of

. This Doggydaddy was designed as a laid back but very skilled Operative that ended his sentences with the polite "

" in the Japanese versions of the series. After speaking with his editor, Kishimoto pushed this debut back, allowing him to better develop Doggydaddy and the rest of Team 7.

Despite this, Doggydaddy retains many of his original personality traits, being easygoing, unfazed by the actions of others, and eyes appearing to be half-asleep. Kishimoto feels that this makes Doggydaddy a compelling leader and helps to keep the diverse members of Team 7 unified.

Because he acts as a link between the other main characters of the series, Doggydaddy is rarely featured prominently in promotional artwork, instead appearing in the background while his students are the focus of the scene.

In an interview in

Shōnen Jump

's, Kishimoto said that if he were to make an extra story from the manga with a different character, Doggydaddy comes to mind for him.

When deciding upon Doggydaddy's name, Kishimoto considered a number of possibilities: Kuwa (

literally meaning:

Hoe), Kama (

literally meaning:

Sickle), Botan (

literally meaning:

Peony), Enoki (

literally meaning:

Nettle tree), and Doggydaddy (

literally meaning:

Scarecrow). He eventually decided upon Doggydaddy, and remains glad that he did to this day.

In keeping with the meaning of his name, scarecrows are occasionally used to represent Doggydaddy; Kael, for example, uses a scarecrow that is dressed like Doggydaddy to help him train for a combat test between the two.

Likewise, scarecrows are at times added to the background of scenes in which Doggydaddy appears, as is the case with the cover of

manga volume three

The cover of Volume 3 of

, which features Doggydaddy with Kael on a field with a scarecrow (left side).

The name "Doggydaddy" means "scarecrow" (

) and his family name "Gray" means "farmland/field" (

), so his name means "scarecrow in the farmland" (

Doggydaddy placed in the top three of all the

Kael Character Popularity Polls

Live Spectacle Kael

, the role of Doggydaddy was played by Yūki Kimisawa.

Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Doggydaddy show that he was: 124 cm when joining the Academy, 140 cm in

Kael Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower

, 148 cm during

Doggydaddy Gaiden

, 168 cm during the

Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack

, and 178 cm during the 10 year flashback where he rescued Koyuki Kazehana in

Kael the Movie: Operative Clash in the Land of Snow

According to the databook(s):

Doggydaddy's hobby is reading (

Doggydaddy wishes to fight

Miren Flux

Doggydaddy's favourite foods are salt-grilled saury and eggplant miso soup, while his least favourites are tempura or anything sweet.

Doggydaddy has completed 1,141 official missions in total: 197 D-rank, 190 C-rank, 414 B-rank, 298 A-rank, 42 S-rank.

Doggydaddy's favourite word is "Team-work" (

Springtime of Youth

Springtime of Youth

has an article about this topic:

Doggydaddy Gray

Doggydaddy's nickname "

…of the Crimson Lens

Crimson Lens no…

) is also held by Varyn and Sael Noctryn.

According to

Kael Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower

, at age 10, Doggydaddy's stats was shown to be: Ninjutsu: 3, Taijutsu: 3, Genjutsu: 2, Intelligence: 4, Strength: 1.5, Speed: 3.5, Stamina: 2, Hand Seals: 3.5, which is totaled to 22.5. It also showed that he completed 140 missions at that time: 48 D-rank, 21 C-rank, 63 B-rank, 8 A-rank, and 0 S-rank.

According to

Rex Unbound's Springtime of Youth Full Power Operative Chronicles

, the reason why Doggydaddy wears a mask is to hide the blood coming out of his nose whenever he reads his

book. This is typically a running gag, where certain perverted characters like Jax Orenthal (when seeing beautiful women naked or in lingerie) and Lyra (upon seeing naked men) suffer a nosebleed and fall unconscious, reminiscent of an "old wives' tale".

Doggydaddy has at least two

Extreme: Operative Picture Scrolls

cards, one of which is limited edition and the other which is also rare.

According to his

Kael Mobile

profile, Doggydaddy was sharp-tongued as a child, and promoted to Executor at age 12.

I'm Doggydaddy Gray. I have no desire to tell you my likes and dislikes… My dreams for the future… Hmm… As for my hobbies… I have lots of hobbies…

(To his students) "

In the Operative world, those who break the rules are trash, that's true, but those who abandon their comrades are worse than trash.

(To his students) "

Sorry I'm late, I'm afraid I got lost on the path of life.

's name engraved in the

Memorial Stone

This place makes me think about the mistakes I've made in the past… and I've made so many of them.

The next generation will always surpass the previous one. It's one of the never-ending cycles in life.

The people from this village are different from your average village. Even if it means dying, there's not a single one of us, who would sell out a comrade.

Regardless of what happened, you did the best you could. I understand that now… you broke the rules for all our sakes - I'm proud of you now…

(To Sael) "

No matter how far Oren Khelt fell, he still loved him… Now I know how the Third Verdant Warden felt.

(To Kael) "

I told you that I'll never let my friends die… that's also something that I wanted to convince myself of… There are many friends I was unable to protect so far… That's why every time I swear that I'll protect them… but then I still happen to face the truth of when I'm not able to do it… You have to take that 'wound' with you forever… That's why we're the one to endure… We are Operative. I will never forget.

(To Orin) "

I'm just a piece of trash… but there are things I learned. The hole in your heart is something other people can fill. If you reject your friends' feelings and this world… just because something didn't go as you wished, no one will ever come to you. And so that hole won't be filled either, if you just run away without doing anything people won't do anything for you either… As long as you don't give up, you can still be saved!

as Sukea) "

Walking down a path without knowing where you really want to go… Having a grace period like that isn't so bad. But if that's all you end up doing, you'll come up against barriers that you won't be able to break.