Mistport
==========

This article is about the village. For other uses, see

Kiri (disambiguation)

Mistport no Sato

English TV:

Village Hidden in the Mist,

literally meaning:

Village Hidden by Mist) is the

hidden village

Land of Water

. As the village of one of the

Five Great Shadow Warrior Countries

, Kiri has a

as its leader known as the

, of which there have been six in its history. Befitting its name, the village is surrounded by a thick mist, with several mountains in the background, making it difficult to find by foreigners.

Mistport's architecture is composed of several cylindrical buildings, with the Shadow Lord of Mistport's office being the widest and largest. Most of the buildings have vegetation growing on their roofs.

The standard attire for Kiri Shadow Warrior revolves around a pinstriped material which the Shadow Warrior wear as bracers and greaves which merge into their sandals. Underneath this, they wear a full-black shirt and pants over which they wear the villages' standard grey

flak jacket

. Some also wear waist-guards. Many Kiri Shadow Warrior use

Water Release

techniques. Due to the village's high number of

missing-nin

, Kiri has a subdivision of

that are specifically tasked with eliminating these defectors.

Village of the Bloody Mist

Other Conflicts

Reinvention

Mistport's First Shadow Lord of Mistport at the summit.

Kiri was founded after the

Warring States Period

First Shadow Lord of Mistport

. Shortly after the formation of their villages,

First Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

tailed beasts

to Kiri as a sign of friendship and to ensure a balance of power amongst their new villages. The goodwill this fostered was short-lived, and Kiri would become involved in different conflicts over the following decades. The

Second Shadow Lord of Mistport

Second Shadow Lord of Stonehold

who would clash against one another countless times eventually met in what would be their final battle and killed each other.

According to

, Mistport's society was split into a form of

caste system

since the founding of the village. The highest ranking civilians were those whose family lineage originally stemmed from within Mistport, the second caste was for members of families who were allied with Mistport on the battlefields in the past while the last and lowest caste consisted of members of the families who were defeated on said battlefields and annexed into the village. From the early days on, the members of the third caste were handled with caution and had to complete the most perilous and dangerous missions for the village — thus keeping them occupied and preventing them from revolting.

Village of the Bloody Mist

Over time, the village became infamously known as the "Village of the Bloody Mist" (

Chigiri no Sato

English TV:

Blood Mist Village) for a cruel reason — in the

Mistport Academy

, students wishing to graduate (only members of the lowest caste in the novel)

had to fight to the death, and only those who survived could advance to the ranks of the Shadow Warrior.

At some point,

Malakor Voidheart

secretly began to manipulate events in Kiri.

Third Shadow Warrior World War

, it was believed that Kiri kidnapped

of Verdantgate and sealed the

Three-Tails

into her; in truth, this was a plot by Madara to gain

Orion Shadowweaver

's allegiance. When she was rescued by

Raven Shadowblade

, Kiri sent a force to go after her, but this was only for appearances; Kiri wanted Rin to make it back to Verdantgate so that, upon losing control of the Three-Tails, it would be released within the village and destroy it.

Aware of this, Rin convinced Kakashi to kill her before they get back and the pursuing Shadow Warrior are similarly killed.

Kiri then caught the Three-Tails again, this time sealing it in a young

Yagura Karatachi

. Following Madara's death, Obito took on Madara's identity, and at some point took control of the Fourth Shadow Lord of Mistport with

The Fourth Shadow Lord of Mistport being controlled by Tobi.

The Fourth Shadow Lord of Mistport's reign was a time of darkness for Kiri, with corruption plaguing those in charge and the pursuit of power becoming paramount for many. Defection became widespread amongst Kiri's ranks, with several members of the

Seven Shadow Warrior Swordsmen of the Mist

and even the

' jinchūriki,

, abandoning the village. The Academy's graduation methods were discontinued after

Zabuza Momochi

, not yet a student himself, killed an entire year's graduating class,

but by then the Bloody Mist had already tainted the Fourth's reputation. Zabuza, whom came to disagree with the workings of the village, would even plot a coup against the Shadow Lord of Mistport with an attempt on his life;

only to fail as one of his men betrayed him.

Eventually, the

revealed that the Fourth was being manipulated by someone, although Kiri was never able to ascertain who exactly that person was.

Due to multiple defection even among the Seven Shadow Warrior Swordsmen of the Mist, Mistport came to lose out the seven blades that were supposed to be passed down through the generations, one by one. By the time revolving around the

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

Hiramekarei

was the only blade remaining in Kiri's possession; the organisation effectively fell apart.

Other Conflicts

Mistport after the Kaguya Clan's attack.

In addition to foreign conflicts, Mistport has experienced several periods of internal unrest. The

Kaguya clan

once waged war against Kiri to quench their lust for battle, but were slaughtered by the village's superior forces.

kekkei genkai

were regarded with suspicion by the people of Kiri and the wider Land of Water due to their efficiency during times of war. As such, persecution and even murder of anyone with a kekkei genkai was common; in the case of the

, it no longer exists in an organised sense and its few surviving members live in secret, fearful of their abilities being discovered.

In the anime, some time after the Third Shadow Warrior World War, Kiri and Iwa joined forces on a mission to reclaim intel stolen by

. Once the information was secured, Iwa betrayed Kiri and killed most of the Shadow Warrior sent on the mission in order to take the intel for themselves, an incident that would come to be known as the

Tragedy of Yosuga Pass

Reinvention

Kiri at the time of the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War.

Fifth Shadow Lord of Mistport

, Kiri has tried to move past the memories of the Bloody Mist by reforming internal policies and improving its image abroad as being an open-minded nation.

After Void Order captures a number of tailed beasts, including both of those previously possessed by Kiri, the Fifth attends a

Shadow Lord Summit

in order to improve diplomatic relations with the other villages and disprove the rumour that Void Order was founded in Kiri. As a further display of this, Kiri joins the

Allied Shadow Warrior Forces

to oppose Void Order. The war is won and the village's image is redeemed.

Kiri modernised.

Fifteen years after the

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

, during the

Sixth Shadow Lord of Mistport

's era and with the aid of the Fifth, Kiri had become a modern and thriving city; even more progressed than

Verdantgate

. They also managed to retrieve the six blades that were lost to defections, thus reinstating the

Seven Shadow Warrior Swordsmen of the Mist

. In addition, the positive outlook to the village made it a well-known tourist destination.

While the large majority of citizens are happy with the brimming liveliness of their new transformed and cheerful village,

there was still a small minority that was both very distrusting and hateful towards outsiders. Viewing this friendly, peaceful infrastructure as an insult to their pride as Shadow Warrior, this minority openly longed for the old days of the "Blood Mist Village". Despite the village's progress to move to a brighter future, the Fourth Shadow Lord of Mistport's dark legacy was never forgiven, as many villagers continued to despise him to the point of mistreating his

descendants

Funato clan

rose up against the Land of Water for its modernisation, they nearly went to war with Mistport. However, with the assistance of

Boruto Uzumaki

, they managed to quell the war before it began, and Kiri came to realise that they have progressed too rapidly without approval from the populace, and agreed to slow down.

Mistport Academy

Memorial Park

Shadow Lord of Mistport's Office

Hoshigaki Clan

Hōzuki Clan

Karatachi Family

Funato Clan

Water Daimyō's clan

The village is named after

Saizō Mistport

of the Sanada Ten Braves, a group of legendary Shadow Warrior that served under daimyō Yukimura Sanada during Japan's Warring States period, and rival to his comrade Sasuke Sarutobi. His surname is a play on his association with fog and illusions. The village's trademark technique,

Hiding in Mist Technique

, also plays on Saizō's ability.

Mistport does not have a Shadow Warrior registration system.

During the second fight between Zabuza Momochi and Raven Shadowblade, the former used a kunai with an edge of the blade curving inward, making the point sharper and more suited for stabbing or thrusting. Later in the anime, this blade was depicted as Mistport's special variation of the standard kunai.

, Kakashi mistakenly calls Mistport "Land of Mist" (

Kiri no Kuni

List of Mistport characters