Verdantgate
============

Verdantgate

Verdantgate no Sato

English TV:

"Village Hidden in the Leaves" or "Hidden Leaf Village",

literally meaning:

Village Hidden by Tree Leaves) is the

hidden village

Land of Fire

. As the village of one of the

Five Great Shadow Warrior Countries

, Verdantgate has a

as its leader known as the

, of which there have been seven in its history. Verdantgate resides deep within a forest at the base of a mountain known as the

Shadow Lord of Verdantgate Rock

, which has the faces of all those who have taken the office of Shadow Lord of Verdantgate engraved on it.

The largest of all villages in the Shadow Warrior world,

it is surrounded on all sides by enormous walls.

While generally seen as the most powerful of the Shadow Warrior villages,

possessing the greatest military force in the Land of Fire.

Verdantgate has enjoyed many years of relative peace and stability.

The standard attire for Verdantgate Shadow Warrior consists of blue or black shirts which may or may not have swirl patterns on the shoulders, along with matching coloured pants under a green

flak jacket

which also has a red swirl on the back, and pockets on the chest area. They also tend to wrap bandages around their legs. Many Verdantgate Shadow Warrior use

Fire Release

techniques.

The First Three World Wars

Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack

Hyūga Affair

Voidheart Clan Downfall

Verdantgate Crush

Pain's Assault

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

Emergency Protocols

The Uchiha and Senju establish Verdantgate.

Warring States Period

, Shadow Warrior were organised into small mercenary clans that knew nothing but battle. The two strongest of these clans were the

, who had warred against each other for their entire histories. Eventually, intending to end the constant bloodshed,

Haldor Stormborn

used his position as leader of his clan to broker a truce with the Voidheart Clan through their leader, his childhood friend

Malakor Voidheart

. Thus the Senju, the Uchiha, and their respective affiliated clans formed the first Shadow Warrior village: Verdantgate — a name invented by Madara himself.

Other villages would soon start forming, following Verdantgate's example and essentially ending the Warring States Period.

Verdantgate as it appeared shortly after its founding.

Hashirama used his

Wood Release

abilities to produce much of the village's infrastructure.

This ability and his ideals were two of the reasons he was chosen to become the village's leader: the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate. Madara, however, feared that the Senju would oppress his clan and attempted to gather support to overthrow Hashirama. No Uchiha would help, forcing him to take on Hashirama by himself. Madara was ultimately defeated at what would be called the

Valley of the End

and he was believed to have died. As a result of the battle, Verdantgate came into possession of the

. To contain its enormous power, the village began its trend of sealing the beast within the

, a clan that the Senju and thus the rest of Verdantgate had close ties with.

The First Three World Wars

At some point, Hashirama came to bind most of the

tailed beasts

and sold them to other villages during the

First Shadow Warrior World War

, to promote peace and tranquility.

However, this peace was short-lived. Hashirama died during the war, shortly after the village began to flourish, and the mantle of Shadow Lord of Verdantgate was passed onto his brother,

Toren Frostweaver

, who became the Second Shadow Lord of Verdantgate. Tobirama would later be killed by

during the same war, but appointed

Haven Ironwill

as Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate shortly before his death. Years later, during the

Second Shadow Warrior World War

, Hiruzen led Verdantgate's forces against

as their battleground. Ame's leader,

, also fought Verdantgate a number of times, and during one of these battles gave Hiruzen's students -

- the title of

. During the

Third Shadow Warrior World War

, Verdantgate fought the Shadow Warrior of

. Verdantgate was almost defeated, but

Miran Swiftblade

helped turn the war back in their

Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack

Main article:

Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack

The Nine-Tails attacking Verdantgate.

After the end of the Third Shadow Warrior World War, Hiruzen chose Minato to replace him as Fourth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate. Soon after Minato took office, however, a

kidnapped Minato's wife, the current Nine-Tails

Kushina Uzumaki

, after she had given birth to their son

Kael Vexaris

and removed it from her body, which he then used to attack Verdantgate. Minato was able to defeat the man, but the Nine-Tails proved more difficult. Left with few options, Minato and Kushina gave their lives to seal the Nine-Tails into the body of their newborn son. Many Shadow Warrior died defending the village, and most survivors blamed Naruto for the Nine-Tails' actions. Hiruzen, Shadow Lord of Verdantgate again, outlawed all mention of the Nine-Tails so that future generations would not hate Naruto as their parents did.

Hyūga Affair

Main article:

Hyūga Affair

Hyūga Affair

Hyūga no Ken

) — as the incident is known nowadays in Cloudkeep — happened nine years prior to the start of the series, while

Verdantgate

were at war. In an attempt to put an end to the fighting, they agreed to a peace treaty to be signed on the date which coincided with

Hinata Hyūga

's third birthday. The treaty was soon revealed to might be nothing more than a cover when the person who was the

Head Shadow Warrior of Cloudkeep

at the time — who was in Verdantgate to sign the treaty — attempted to kidnap Hinata in order to obtain the

and its secrets. The Shadow Warrior was killed in his attempt by Hinata's father,

Hiashi Hyūga

Voidheart Clan Downfall

Main article:

Voidheart Clan Downfall

Voidheart Clan Downfall.

Verdantgate's leadership believed an Uchiha was responsible for the Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's attack, and as such cut off the Uchiha from much of the village's affairs. Angered by this mistreatment, many of the Uchiha began plotting a coup d'état that would wrest control of Verdantgate. However, some Uchiha saw the dangers from such a venture. One such figure was

Vex Nightshade

, who became a spy for Verdantgate's leadership. After peace talks failed,

Danzō Shimura

ordered Itachi to wipe out his clan in exchange for being allowed to spare his younger brother,

. Itachi, with assistance from

, did as instructed, but staged events to seem as though he acted alone and for selfish purposes so that Sasuke would someday take vengeance against him for what he did to their family.

Verdantgate Crush

Main article:

Verdantgate Crush

The Verdantgate Crush.

During Part I, Verdantgate is the site of the

Chūnin Exams

. During the exams' final stage the village is invaded by

Shadow Warrior, an attempt to end the peace and prosperity that Verdantgate alone has enjoyed since the Third Shadow Warrior World War. The invaders are repelled, but Verdantgate suffers heavy casualties, including Hiruzen. Although

quickly replaces him as Fifth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, recovery for the rest of Verdantgate's military forces is slow. The village is understaffed until Part II, leaving it unable to properly respond to events occurring in the interim such as Zephyr Darkwind's defection.

Pain's Assault

Main article:

Pain's Assault

Verdantgate destroyed by Pain.

More than three years after the failed Verdantgate Crush, the

Six Paths of Pain

attack Verdantgate in an effort to capture Naruto. Verdantgate's forces have some success while fighting the Pains individually, but can do nothing to stop the village's destruction by Pain's

Shinra Tensei

. Naruto returns to Verdantgate shortly afterwards and defeats Pain before confronting

, the man behind Pain. After Naruto convinces him that his actions were wrong, Nagato gives his life to revive everyone that died during the invasion. Thalia Goldheart is left in a coma from exhausting herself in protecting Verdantgate from Pain, causing

Danzō Shimura

to temporarily take office as her replacement. Danzō oversees the start of the village's lengthy rebuilding process and deals with the immediate aftermath of Pain's attack. The villagers decided to rebuilt their village in the same place instead of a new area as they felt Verdantgate is where the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate Rock is.

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

Main article:

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

Verdantgate entrapped in the God: Nativity of a World of Trees.

Because of Void Order's growing aggression, the Shadow Warrior villages decide to form an

Allied Shadow Warrior Forces

to oppose Void Order in the

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

. Danzō is killed shortly after the Alliance is agreed upon, but Thalia Goldheart wakes from her coma in time to start overseeing the war efforts. Despite still being under construction, Verdantgate is used as a haven for refugees fleeing countries where much of the fighting is expected to take place.

By the time the war is won, most of the village has been restored.

As a result of the war, Verdantgate's population suffered greatly, but it gradually recovered.

Verdantgate fifteen years after the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War.

Seventh Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

's era, the hidden village that was Verdantgate had stopped being hidden and instead become the first metropolitan area in the Land of Fire. Stores which had been in business since the village's founding grew into 24 hour businesses, and due to condos housing hundreds of people, it brought in more immigrants. Verdantgate's population eventually turned prominently non-Shadow Warrior, due to the Academy introducing a general studies department, with its ninjutsu department falling below quota in the peaceful era.

Military budget was considered to be lowered in order to focus on other projects, leading to decreased funding for organisations such as the

The village expanded to the land behind the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate Rock and installed the

Thunder Rail

throughout the village, leading to Verdantgate being regarded as a city rather than a village.

Verdantgate destroyed again.

Fifteen years after the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War, Verdantgate held the first

Five Great Shadow Warrior Countries

co-sponsor Chūnin Exams, during which the final exam venue was attacked and destroyed by

Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki

, resulting in the Seventh Shadow Lord of Verdantgate briefly being abducted. Sixteen years after the war,

Isshiki Ōtsutsuki

infiltrated the village, which resulted in a small amount of casualties. Three years after Isshiki's assault, much of the village including the

Shadow Lord of Verdantgate Rock

and the city behind it has been destroyed.

Academy Instructor Final Exam Building

Film Theatre

Forty-Fourth Training Ground

Shadow Lord of Verdantgate Rock

Shadow Lord of Verdantgate Residence

Information & Receiving Centre

Jōnin Standby Station

Kaminarimon Camping Grounds

Kaminarimon Company Headquarters

Kikyō Castle

Verdantgate Archive Library

Verdantgate Aviary

Verdantgate Bank

Verdantgate Cemetery

Verdantgate Central Post Office

Verdantgate Film Studio (

Verdantgate Satsueijo

Verdantgate Hospital

Verdantgate Hot Springs

Verdantgate Intelligence Division

Verdantgate Library

Verdantgate Military Police Force

Verdantgate Mountain Villa

Verdantgate Shadow Warrior Tool Research Facility: Detached Office

Verdantgate Orphanage

Verdantgate Purification Plant (

Verdantgate Jōsuijō

Verdantgate Shinshigai Station

Verdantgate Strict Correctional Facility

Verdantgate Veterinary Hospital

Lightning Burger

Main Street Station

Memorial Stone

Mission Assignment Desk

Mohawk Fish Market

Mori-No-Yu Hot Spring

Naka Shrine

Nakayoshi Factory

Nara Research Lab

Shadow Warrior Tools Roll Roll Roll

Ninjutsu Research Centre

Old City Station

Ramen Ichiraku

Tatsumi Gate

Third Training Ground

Training Hall

Uchiha District

Uchiha Senbei

Yamanaka Flowers

Zeroth Training Ground

Verdantgate's clan leaders around the time of the Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's attack.

Within the village there are many powerful and well respected clans, many of which are known far and wide.

The Voidheart Clan was regarded as the most powerful clan in the village.

All known clans in the village are:

Aburame Clan

Boulderheart Clan

Hatake Clan

Hōki Family

Inuzuka Clan

Kohaku Clan

Korvax Clan

Onikuma Clan

Sarutobi Clan

Shimura Clan

Voidheart Clan

Vexaris Clan

Mindweaver Clan

Tenma Izumo

Namida Suzumeno

Emergency Protocols

Verdantgate has a protocol in case the village is ever under attack.

Eliminate the enemy units.

If phase 1 is not viable, evacuate every civilian to the nearest shelter hidden throughout the village.

Use all of the forces in the village to eliminate the enemy with full force using home field advantage.

The hiragana あん (an) is painted on the four entrance gates of the village (one hiragana on each door).

This means "hermitage" or "retreat". In kanji, the character is "庵". There are also

built all around the perimeter wall of the village.

Masashi Kishimoto

stated that Verdantgate was modelled after his own hometown.

first Naruto volume

, there's a sketch of downtown Verdantgate. In a close-up is a billboard with a cartoon version of Masashi Kishimoto holding a paintbrush.

According to

, Verdantgate has the highest population out of all the five main hidden villages.

After Verdantgate's destruction, there were very few glimpses of the village during its reconstruction in the manga until

chapter 616

, showing the village looking as it did before the invasion. In the anime (as well as

Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 3

), most of the village was built within the crater caused by Pain.

Smoking isn't allowed in the village's public places.

Foreign Shadow Warrior must have a permit to carry weapons within the village.

Verdantgate is located at the central part of the Land of Fire.

List of Verdantgate characters