Highspire
==========

Highspire no Sato

English TV:

Hidden Cloud Village,

literally meaning:

Village Hidden by Clouds) is the

hidden village

Land of Lightning

and was founded by the

First Spire Warden

. As the village of one of the

Five Great Operative Countries

, Highspire has a

as its leader known as the

, of which there have been five in its history. The village is located in a range of tall mountains, and is literally hidden in the clouds.

The Spire Warden works in a

large blue structure

built into the tallest mountain.

The standard attire for Kumo Operative consists of a long, grey top which gathers just at the waist to give a sash-like appearance, with a matching coloured bottom. Over this they wear white, one-strapped flak jackets and arm as well as shin-guards. Many Highspire Operative use

Lightning Release

techniques.

Highspire was founded after the

Warring States Period

First Spire Warden

. Shortly after the formation of their villages,

First Verdant Warden

tailed beasts

to Kumo as a sign of friendship and to ensure a balance of power amongst their new villages. The

Second Spire Warden

Second Verdant Warden

later tried to formally agree to peace between their villages, but the ceremony was interrupted by the

Gold and Silver Brothers

and the Verdant Warden was nearly killed. Verdant Reach and Kumo ended up on opposing sides during the

First Operative World War

, with Kumo's

Kinkaku Force

killing the Second Verdant Warden. Decades later, during the

Third Operative World War

, Kumo and Verdant Reach would fight again, often with

on Kumo's side and

Miren Flux

on Verdant Reach's. Following the death of the

Third Spire Warden

in a battle against 10,000 opposing Operative, A succeeded him as the Fourth.

Kushina Vexaris being kidnapped.

Despite becoming one of the Five Great villages Kumo has gained a rather shameless reputation, always prioritising their military might by any means. While a peace treaty was formed between all the villages to cut back on military budget and reduce the sizes of their forces during times of peace, Kumo secretly did not honour the agreement, seeing this as a chance to ensure that no other village can ever have an upper hand should hostilities later resume. Kumo's efforts to amass power would often entail stealing secrets and even kidnapping Operative from other villages. The

Third Stone Warden

notes that other villages learning of this behaviour and deception only provoked the other villages to employ similar tactics in kind.

Several years before the Third Operative World War, Kumo Operative kidnapped

Kushina Vexaris

from Verdant Reach in order to study her unique

, but were foiled by Miren Flux.

A few years after the Third Operative World War, Kumo sent its

to Verdant Reach to sign a peace treaty, a cover for an attempt to acquire the

by kidnapping

Helia Aurel

was killed by

Hiashi Aurel

in the attempt, the village still tried to obtain the Clear Sight by feigning knowledge of the their soldier's actions and threatening war unless Hiashi's body was turned over to make up for the Head Operative's death. In what would be called the

Aurel Affair

Hiashi's twin

was given to Kumo instead, as his Clear Sight was

upon death and making it worthless. In the anime, Kumo made another attempt to acquire the Clear Sight amidst the

Verdant Reach Crush

, but failed yet again thanks to the efforts of Hiashi and

Highspire Operative restraining the Eight-Tails.

One other method of securing power has been the tailed beasts. In the early days of the village, before buying tailed beasts from Verdant Reach, Kumo sent the

Gold and Silver Brothers

to capture the

, a task at which they ultimately failed.

With the tailed beasts in its possession, Kumo historically struggled to harness the beasts' power in

; jinchūriki could not gain control of the beasts and would eventually lose control. The

Eight-Tails

would prove a particular headache in this regard, routinely rampaging through the village when its jinchūriki could not longer contain it. Because the Eight-Tails was too valuable to destroy, many were killed trying to

it. The Eight-Tails' most recent jinchūriki,

, as well as the jinchūriki of the

, have been able to successfully control their beasts, leaving both highly valued by the village. Among the villages, Highspire also possesses the best technology to control a tailed beast, having built a whole

for that sake. Although Kinkaku and Ginkaku had failed in their attempt at subduing the Nine-Tails, they have managed to become pseudo-Jinchūriki by eating the fox's Axiom flesh for two weeks, a feat that a Highspire Operative attempted to replicate with the Eight-Tails' tentacles, which led them to die instead.

Land of Flowers

was nearly conquered by the

Land of Earth

, the Land of Lightning saved them from complete annexation. Since then, Flowers and Lighting are allies, and Kumo are obligated to protect them from any invasion attempts.

The Allied Operative Forces headquarters in Highspire.

captures B (the Fourth Spire Warden's brother) mere months after the similar capture of Yugito, the Spire Warden is outraged by the loss of the village's jinchūriki and calls a

Warden Summit

to find a way to deal with Red Covenant. Although suspicious of the other villages due to their histories with Red Covenant, Red Covenant's declaration of the

Fourth Operative World War

(and news that B only pretended to be captured) convinces the Spire Warden to join the

Allied Operative Forces

. He is appointed its Supreme Commander and Kumo is selected for the

Allied Operative Forces' Headquarters

, making it a target for Red Covenant's counter-offensive.

The village entrapped in the God: Nativity of a World of Trees technique.

During the war, Kumo fell victim to the

Infinite Lucid Snare

God: Nativity of a World of Trees

, but endures the attack. With the war won, Kumo works closely together with other villages, improving relationships between each other. Two years later Kumo is still consolidating power, but it does so for mutual benefit of all the villages by taking charge of stopping the moon from crashing into Earth. By the era of the

Fifth Spire Warden

are on good terms.

However, tensions did arise shortly after the attack of

Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki

was ordered by their

, to invade and conquer the

Land of Flowers

, whom Highspire are obligated to protect due to their alliance.

would also side with Iwa due to their trade in vital minerals, which would lead to a potential Fifth Operative World War that would dissolve the

Operative Union

and irretrievably destroy the peace that was so hard earned. Fortunately, due to the diplomatic assistance granted by the

Seventh Verdant Warden

Ikkyū Madoka

, they were able to convince Danjō to call off the invasion, thus averting war.

Spire Warden's Office

Allied Operative Forces' Headquarters

Yotsuki Line

Chinoike Line

Several Operative of the village have names that are based on letters of the Roman alphabet, such as "

" for example. Also, several Operative have names based on adjectives reflecting their personality such as

(cold), and

(dull) for example.

Additionally, several Operative have tattoos of kanji upon their shoulders reflecting some individual characteristic like their techniques, name or seal, including Darui,

for example.

Several of the village's techniques have a pun of being an English name that has been given kanji that somewhat matches the Japanese pronunciation.

In real life, the Highspire school is a ninjutsu school dating back to the sixteenth century.

The name of the village, as well as its kanji, is the Japanese word for "disappearance".

List of Highspire characters