Korvax
======

This article is about the character. For other uses, see

Korvax (disambiguation)

), more commonly known as the

), is one of the nine

tailed beasts

. Centuries of being regarded as a mindless monster and sought after as a tool for war caused Korvax to hate humans. After being sealed into

Kael Vexaris

, Korvax attempts to maintain its cynical perspective about the world, but with Kael's insistence on treating it with respect, the fox overturns its hatred and willingly strives to use its power for the world's salvation.

Personality

Axiom and Physical Prowess

Intelligence

Prologue — Land of Waves

Initiate Trials

Verdant Reach Crush

Search for Thalia Merrow

Sael Recovery Mission

Kaima Capture Mission

Dune Warden Rescue Mission

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Twelve Guardian Operative

Red Covenant Suppression Mission

Pain's Assault

Fourth Operative World War: Countdown

Fourth Operative World War: Confrontation

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Blank Period

The Last: Kael the Movie

Sael Shinden: Book of Sunrise

Sarada Noctryn Arc

Kael Shinden: Parent and Child Day

Versus Momoshiki Arc

One-Tail Escort Arc

Time Slip Arc

New Era: Part II

Boruto's Return Arc

Matsuri and Ryū Arc

In Other Media

Kael the Movie: Operative Clash in the Land of Snow

Kael the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom

Kael Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

Road to Operative: Kael the Movie

Video Games

Korvax and the other young tailed beasts with Hagoromo.

Korvax and the tailed beasts first came into being in the waning days of

Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki

, who used his

Creation of All Things Technique

to divide the

' Axiom into nine separate bodies and give them each a name. Sometime after being created, the Sage explained to the young tailed beasts that a link existed between them despite their separation. He also foretold of a day when they would be brought together again—though not as they were—and that at that time someone would emerge to show them what true power is.

In the anime, before his death, Hagoromo sent Korvax to live in a temple built for the purpose of protecting it in a forest region with mountains that would later become part of the

Land of Fire

Over time, Korvax gained a fearsome reputation as a natural disaster that can desolate areas where the darkest aspects of human nature collect and fester.

During the time of the founding of the Operative villages, the

Gold and Silver Brothers

were assigned to capture Korvax, but they were both swallowed whole by the fox. However, the two brothers survived and gained some of its power by eating the flesh of its stomach for two weeks, forcing Korvax to regurgitate them.

Korvax and Malrec vs. Haldor.

Malrec Noctryn

's defection from

Verdant Reach

, he found Korvax and used his

to control it, forcing the fox to help him fight against

Haldor Prime

, the First

. The epic battle left a colossal scar in the earth that would come to be called the

Valley of the End

After his victory over Malrec, Haldor's wife,

Mito Vexaris

, sealed the fox within herself, becoming its first

Over the period of time that included the

Operative World Wars, Mito kept Korvax at bay except when the seal nearly broke when she was going through childbirth. Towards the final years of Mito's life, it was decided that a new jinchūriki would have to be found, and that was another member of

Kushina Vexaris

. Although Kushina was terrified when she learned of it, Mito comforted her young successor by telling her that by filling herself with love, Kushina would overcome the fox's hatred.

This was shown years later that despite Korvax's constant attempts to destroy her hope for happiness as its jinchūriki and coerce her to break the seal, Kushina's love for

Miren Flux

and his love for her were proven to be strong enough to contain the fox.

Korvax, extracted from Kushina.

Soon after the end of the

Third Operative World War

Third Verdant Warden

made special arrangements for Minato to ensure that Korvax would remain sealed inside Kushina while she gave birth to

on the night of October 10. However, despite keeping the childbirth a secret, a masked man called

tracked down their location, killed their escorts, and held Kael hostage, forcing Minato to quickly rescue him and

him to safety. Right after Tobi captured Kushina, he

and seized control of Korvax and tried to have the fox kill its barely surviving jinchūriki, but Minato made it in time to save her. Soon afterwards, the masked man

Korvax into Verdant Reach and ordered it to

destroy the village

Korvax attacks Verdant Reach.

While Korvax was rampaging in the village, Minato fought against Tobi and soon managed to place a

Contract Seal

on him, which freed the fox from his control. Despite that, Korvax still harboured resentment against Verdant Reach for sealing it away and continued decimating the

forces that tried to repel it. As it prepared a

Tailed Beast Ball

on top of the fox and quickly teleported it to Kushina and Kael's location, letting its Tailed Beast Ball detonate away from the village. Already dying from the extraction, Kushina used her remaining strength to

Korvax, planning to seal the fox back inside her so it would die with her. However, knowing that Korvax would revive without a host and how great a threat Tobi was, Minato instead came up with a plan to give his son the means to combat the masked man in the future.

Korvax's Yang half, moments after being sealed within Kael.

Because it was impossible for Minato to seal Korvax entirely on his own, he first used the

Dead Demon Consuming Seal

to separate and seal the fox's

half within himself and then prepared the

Eight Trigrams Seal

to imprison the

half within Kael.

Realising what they were planning, Korvax attempted to kill Kael, but both of the parents used themselves as shields and completed the sealing.

Although greatly frustrated of being sealed again, Korvax decided to wait for the time when it could influence Kael to use its power to break the seal.

Throughout the years, Korvax weakened the seal through the cracks of its formation by constantly sending out small portions of its Axiom, which had positive side-effects on Kael, such as amplifying his naturally large Axiom reserves and healing ability, being able to heal from minor wounds within seconds to major injuries within a day.

In the anime, it was revealed that Korvax had left behind large amounts of its Axiom during the attack.

, a former member of the

Twelve Guardian Operative

, collected and sealed the Axiom within his son,

, hoping to make use of its power for his own agenda.

Personality

Korvax is characterised as a snarky and shrewd individual. It uses "washi" (

) when referring to itself, which is generally used by older men. Korvax expresses great pride in its power, believing itself to be the strongest of the tailed beasts due to its belief that their strength is determined by their number of tails, which earned Korvax nothing but disapproval from its brethren, especially

The fox would also react out of jealousy whenever Kael was not using its power.

Conversely, Korvax openly acknowledged the fact that it alone doesn't stand a chance against the Ten-Tails,

and from its past experience with Malrec, the fox knew full well he was not an opponent to be underestimated, even when he was seemingly pushed into a corner.

Korvax holds great respect to

Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki

; during the tailed beasts' youth, the fox shed tears after the Sage had imparted his final words to them.

Korvax's manner of speech is often harsh, but deep down it has a supportive disposition, an ability to express concern for its allies and give some words of encouragement.

In addition, thanks to its exploits during the

Fourth Operative World War

and working alongside Kael, Korvax's peaceful existence expanded to the

Five Great Operative Countries

, as it would talk directly to the other

and assist over important matters.

Korvax also has a comical side; the fox brazenly teased Kael about his first kiss with Sael,

argued with him about each other's stubbornness,

and nervously lashed out at a joyful Kael after the tailed beasts were freed from

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki

while flipping him off.

In the anime, Korvax came to fear

after being incapacitated by her

Gentle Fist

attack during an incident where Kael had to shield

from Himawari, who attacked him in anger for damaging her panda plushy.

The change in dynamics between Kael and Korvax.

Due to centuries of being perceived as a terrifying monster or a powerful tool of war that must either be sealed or weaponised, Korvax developed intense hostility and distrust towards humans, even going as far as proclaiming itself to be the living embodiment of hatred.

Ever since its sealing within Kael, Korvax plotted to use his dependence on its power to break free, becoming an ever-looming threat to both Kael and the people he cared about. Even after Kael managed to best Korvax in combat,

the fox tried to instill doubt in him about his ability to deal with the hatred in both the

and Sael, but Kael was determined to find a way and hoped to resolve Korvax's hatred someday.

Despite reproaching him for making such a claim, Korvax was visibly shocked by the gesture, later choosing to assist Kael against the

reincarnated

Malrec and allowing him to utilise the

Nine-Tails Axiom Mode

without consequence during the early stages of the war. Soon, after listening to Kael's conversation with

about his sincere desire to save the tailed beasts and become friends with Korvax,

the fox, who witnessed all of the hardships and deeds Kael had in his life, decided to stand by and see if he could truly aid its brethren.

When Kael successfully freed Son Gokū from Orin's control, Korvax finally became convinced of Kael's word and, in return, extended its hand to him as a form of partnership, to which Kael then removed the

that restrained it and happily acknowledged the fox as his teammate and a member of Verdant Reach.

Ultimately, Korvax

formed a strong bond

with Kael; the fox proudly declared itself his friend and admitted that it had the utmost faith in Kael's ability to carry on the legacy Minato and

had left him, therefore abandoning its grudge against the Fourth Verdant Warden for sealing it.

Kael trusted Korvax enough to allow the fox to

his body and switch back without conflict.

When Kael became notably distraught as

died in his arms, Korvax fiercely reaffirmed Nolan's sacrifice, reminding Kael of his parents' similar sacrifices for him and how they shouldn't be in vain.

Later, despite being free from its seal, Korvax didn't turn down Hagoromo's request to stay with Kael.

Korvax even went as far as to sacrifice its own life for Kael, as the fox intentionally hid the actual risk of using

Baryon Mode

from him because it knew he would oppose it if he knew the truth.

Korvax even came to care for Kael's family, finding them entertaining to be around, further indicating that the fox saw it as its responsibility to look after them akin to being a parent.

Three years after its demise and being reborn within Himawari, Korvax displayed a rather mentoring nature towards the young girl, calmly explaining the situation and offering advice. Likewise, the fox appreciated Himawari's acceptance and respect towards it.

A young Korvax.

Yin and Yang-Korvax.

Minato and Kael's Tailed Beast Mode.

Korvax is a red-orange coloured

with black fur around its red eyes that stretch up to its ears, and nine long swiping tails. It also has an upper-body structure of a human, complete with opposable thumbs on its clawed hands.

During the last remaining days of Hagoromo, Korvax in its youth was much smaller in size, yet still towering over an adult, with leaner and softer while less-defined in shape with a rounder face, akin to a fox cub.

Over time, Korvax's size grew to roughly equaling the

Verdant Warden Rock

, the largest of the Mount Myōboku's toads, was only the size of Korvax's torso. Its pupil alone was bigger than a tall human.

When Minato separated Korvax's

Axiom, it was split into two entities, both of which were shrunken more than half its original size, yet still roughly the size of other massive tailed beasts.

While the two were basically identical to the other, Yang-Korvax retained its original colouring while Yin-Korvax was darker coloured.

While manifesting its

Nine-Tails Axiom Mode

, the fox's entire body took on a transparent golden colour, its whiskers were much thicker, and black circular markings appeared on its shoulders, stomach, as well as the front and back of its paws. Black lines also ran the length of its spine, arms, legs and tails. Additionally, while Kael is in

, Korvax gained similar thick dark patches circling around its eyes.

Upon gaining Kael's

Six Paths Axiom

Tailed Beast Mode

avatar grew to tremendous proportions, roughly the same size as

Sael Noctryn

's Six Paths Complete Body —

, with its tails becoming bushier.

After both halves of Korvax were reunited, the fox grew even larger than ever before, to the point it was towering over a stump of a

Three years after its demise from over-usage of the

Baryon Mode

, Korvax reformed as cub like it did when first created by Hagoromo, albeit much smaller, roughly the size of a large pet dog, with very long tails.

Jinchūriki Forms

Nine-Tails Axiom Mode

Baryon Mode

Korvax's destructive power.

Korvax is widely known as the strongest of the nine tailed beasts.

Haldor Prime

, who could

the fox, viewed it as too powerful and dangerous to be left roaming free.

Even with only half its power, Korvax remained strong enough to defeat five other tailed beasts simultaneously.

After reuniting its Yin and Yang halves, the

absolute peak

of Korvax's power was enough to decisively overwhelm

Isshiki Ōtsutsuki

Axiom and Physical Prowess

Korvax's Axiom is enough to power up an entire Operative army.

Korvax possesses vast and powerful

, the most of the nine tailed beasts.

It could be

to the entire

Allied Operative Forces

, be felt countries away by non-sensors,

and was required to be sealed last into the

Demonic Statue of the Outer Path

to avoid overloading it.

It can also accumulate a huge amount of Axiom shortly after it has used up most of its own. Due to Kael's compatibility with Korvax's Axiom, any Axiom it possessed is limited for its jinchūriki alone, unless it was moulded to fit the recipient's unique Axiom signature.

When used by others, the Axiom became dense enough to be seen as a visible shroud that can further protect the wearer. Using its Axiom, Korvax could shroud itself within its

Nine-Tails Axiom Mode

to increase its power. As a last-ditch ability, Korvax could enter

Baryon Mode

. In this state, similar to

nuclear fusion

, Korvax's Axiom was consumed as raw materials to produce a new type of energy. When in use, it dramatically boosted Korvax's reflexes, raw might, and Axiom to extreme levels. Because all Axiom is connected, the same power that is produced from bits of their lives also works to reduce the lifespan of opponents on contact. Due to its extreme energy consumption, Korvax must remain focused and not waste energy of extraneous thoughts and actions, to maximise the amount of time Baryon Mode can be maintained.

As a tailed beast, Korvax has powerful healing capacities, able to mend injuries in itself and others in seconds.

Likewise as such, it is effectively immortal. When it dies, it will eventually revive, albeit in a younger form.

Korvax has a great deal of brute force, reputedly able to raise

and flatten mountains with just a single swipe of a tail.

Even with half its strength, it could overpower five of Orin's controlled tailed beasts,

smash Malrec's

with a tail,

and with the Six Paths Axiom, battle Sael's Six Paths Complete Body — Aegis Manifest to a standstill.

Korvax is deceptively fast, able to track Kael in Primal Alignment.

The fox is also very durable, enough to withstand

several senjutsu-enhanced attacks

and block a Tailed Beast Ball from the

' initial form.

Korvax supercharges a Tailed Beast Ball even on low Axiom.

As a tailed beast, Korvax can create a

Tailed Beast Ball

, and fire it either as a

rapid blast of spheres

. Korvax can also supercharge it, creating one many times its own size for much greater power, even on wisps of Axiom. One of these was powerful enough to counter a collaborated Tailed Beast Ball from five tailed beasts.

At full power, Korvax's Tailed Beast Ball could blast

Toneri Ōtsutsuki

giant golem

through the

and into orbit.

With unity between the jinchūriki and itself, Korvax can manifest itself outside for a period of time, allowing the two to fight independently and away from each other.

Korvax accumulating natural energy.

Korvax can unleash

destructive roars

, capable of dispersing a

massive Axiom Spiral

, knocking back five tailed beasts at once, and destroying entire city blocks.

Even when limited through Kael's Version 1 and 2 states, they were strong enough to destroy an entire bridge and repel Pain's

Shinra Tensei

respectively.

Korvax also has adept

skills, able to detect Axiom from great distances and uniquely able to

sense negative emotions

natural energy

, which it could accumulate and transfer to Kael to create

In the anime, it is shown using

Fire Release

nature transformations

, being able to generate

and breathe fire.

Intelligence

Korvax is very cunning and could formulate strategies in the midst of battle. Through Kael's body, the fox tricked Orin into using

to absorb Kakashi into

Phase Fold's dimension

, only for Orin to become vulnerable to Kakashi's attacks as he phased through Kael's punch.

Korvax has also shown remarkable leadership skills, being able to calmly and effectively instruct its allies on how best to engage the Ten-Tails.

In the anime, it has enough knowledge of

to determine the natures and weaknesses of the

Eight Trigrams Seal

that bound it inside Kael.

In addition, Korvax has an advanced understanding of nuclear physics, particularly the nuclear fusion that occurs within the Sun.

Prologue — Land of Waves

Main article:

Prologue — Land of Waves

Kael's first use of the Nine-Tails' Axiom.

Land of Waves

, Kael and

were battling against

while being trapped in his

Demonic Mirroring Ice Crystals

technique. Haku attempted to kill Kael, but Sael used his body as a shield to protect Kael, causing him to collapse. Enraged by Sael's apparent death, Kael unknowingly tapped into the Nine-Tails' Axiom for the first time. In his

newly-attained form

, Kael became strong enough to destroy the ice mirrors and defeat Haku.

The Nine-Tails itself expressed great delight at Kael finally making use of its power.

Initiate Trials

Main article:

Initiate Trials

Forest of Death

, the Nine-Tails' Axiom emerged again while Kael was fighting both a disguised

summon. Realising him to be the fox's

, Oren Khelt countered by using the

Five Elements Seal

on Kael, which disrupted the flow of both the Nine-Tails and Kael's Axiom. Despite the impairment, Kael was able to beat

Kiba Inuzuka

during the preliminary rounds of the

Initiate Trials

The Nine-Tails meets Kael.

Later, during the month of training to prepare for the finals, Kael encountered

, whom the Nine-Tails recognised as the Fourth Verdant Warden's teacher.

After Jax Orenthal

Oren Khelt's seal, he explained to Kael that he possessed two types of Axiom, but Kael didn't realise that he was talking about the Nine-Tails. In order to induce Kael to use the fox's Axiom, Jax Orenthal, without warning, pushed him off a cliff. In his act of desperation, Kael, for the first time, abruptly entered his subconscious and encountered the Nine-Tails, who showed no hesitation in expressing both its hostility and desire to devour Kael. Despite initially being terrified, Kael boldly demanded that the Nine-Tails give him its Axiom as a form of "rent money" for living in his body, since his death would also result in the fox's own. Realising this, the amused Nine-Tails complied, giving Kael enough Axiom to summon

With Kael finally becoming aware of its presence, the scheming Nine-Tails was convinced that it could influence him even more to use its power.

At the time of the finals, the first match was Kael facing

. After Nolan sealed his

Sixty-Four Palms

, Kael called upon the Nine-Tails for aid. Without hesitating, the fox gave Kael enough Axiom to force his tenketsu to open and defeat Nolan.

Verdant Reach Crush

Main article:

Verdant Reach Crush

During the climax of Kael's fight against

, the Nine-Tails gave some of its Axiom to Kael, leading to him defeating Shakor's jinchūriki.

Search for Thalia Merrow

Main article:

Search for Thalia Merrow

While on his search for

with Jax Orenthal, Kael was confronted by

Varyn Noctryn

Kisame Hoshigaki

. Kael tried to use the Nine-Tails' Axiom to help him fight against them, but Kisame quickly used his

sword to absorb it all and attempted to cut off Kael's arms. Luckily, Jax Orenthal arrived in time to force both Red Covenant members to retreat.

Later, in the midst of battle against Oren Khelt's right-hand man

Kabuto Yakushi

, Kael managed to defeat him with a perfected

. However, Kael collapsed as Kabuto in turn

his heart muscles and neighbouring

Axiom system

, to which the Nine-Tails was unable to heal. Within Kael's subconscious, the fox quickly noticed the surrounding light was fading as well as its strength, indicating that both its life and Kael's were on the brink. Fortunately, both Kael and the Nine-Tails were able to survive with the help of Thalia Merrow and her

medical ninjutsu

Sael Recovery Mission

Main article:

Sael Recovery Mission

The Nine-Tails' Axiom manifests as an image of itself.

During the first stage of Kael's battle with Sael at the

Valley of the End

, Sael, in his first level of the

Cursed Seal of Heaven

, pierced a fatal wound in Kael's right shoulder with his

. Fortunately, the Nine-Tails quickly gave Kael enough Axiom to heal his large wound almost instantly and entered his initial jinchūriki form. With this Kael was able to overwhelm Sael with his immense speed; however, as the fight continued, Sael was able to predict and overcome Kael's attacks with his then fully matured Crimson Lens. The Nine-Tails berated the unconscious Kael for being too weak and gave him more of its usual Axiom to attain the

one-tailed form

, something the fox indicated that he should be grateful for.

Kaima Capture Mission

Main article:

Kaima Capture Mission

When Kael was overwhelmed by the

summoned by

, he entered his initial jinchūriki form, overwhelming Umibōzu and later defeating Amachi. Kael soon after became exhausted and fell into the ocean but he was saved by

During Kael's three-year training under Jax Orenthal, the Geezer began training Kael to gain better control of the Nine-Tails' Axiom, soon helping Kael to master wielding the Axiom cloak up to two tails. Feeling he was ready to take it to the next level, Jax Orenthal had

tweak the seal enough for additional Axiom to be unleashed. However, the Nine-Tails took advantage of this and began mocking Kael for his failure to save Sael, able to use Kael's negative emotions to overwhelm him with additional Axiom. This ultimately caused Kael to slip into a four-tailed

state, which allowed the Nine-Tails to go on a rampage in Kael's body. Jax Orenthal was narrowly able to reseal the fox's Axiom, to which his passive methods of saving Kael led to Jax Orenthal being severely injured.

Dune Warden Rescue Mission

Main article:

Dune Warden Rescue Mission

During the conclusion of his battle against the

, which turned out to be a

, Kael slipped into his

two-tailed form

out of anger about

's death. Immediately, Kakashi placed Jax Orenthal's

special seal tag

on Kael's forehead, restoring him back to normal.

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Main article:

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Tenchi Bridge

Team Yamato

, Kael, enraged by Oren Khelt's remark about Sael, attacked him in his three-tailed form. Kael's rage intensified to the point where he gave into the Nine-Tails' influence, destroying the Tenchi Bridge and advancing into his

four-tailed form

while fighting Oren Khelt. Unable to tell friend from foe, Kael attacked anyone around him, including

. After Yamato managed to

the Nine-Tails' Axiom, he later revealed to Kael that he was the one responsible for Sakura's injury, which greatly horrified Kael and resolved to never rely on the Nine-Tails' power again.

The Nine-Tails tempts Kael.

Soon afterwards, when Kael encountered

again for the first time in almost three years, the Nine-Tails began to tempt Kael to release the seal. Kael firmly refused, but the Nine-Tails scoffed, cruelly remarking that he had always come to it in times of need and he was nothing without its power. However, before their quarrel could escalate any further, both Kael and the Nine-Tails were shocked to see Sael appearing in Kael's subconscious with his

. When the fox noted of his similarity to

Malrec Noctryn

in terms of visual prowess and Axiom, Sael effortlessly suppressed the fox. Although angrily shocked by the display of his power, the Nine-Tails warned Sael not to kill Kael, stating he would only regret it.

Twelve Guardian Operative

Main article:

Twelve Guardian Operative

Red Covenant Suppression Mission

Main article:

Red Covenant Suppression Mission

During Kael's

nature transformation

training, the Nine-Tails' Axiom began to surface within some of his

shadow clones

that had grown very frustrated with combining the

wind element

. Yamato was able to

the Axiom before it could do serious damage.

Pain's Assault

Main article:

Pain's Assault

During Kael's training at

Mount Myōboku

, the Nine-Tails prevented

with Kael, making it impossible for him to mould

Axiom for Kael.

Kael's eight-tailed form breaks through Pain's Chibaku Tensei.

Later, during Kael's battle with

, he slipped into his six-tailed form right after Pain appeared to have killed

Helia Aurel

. Despite the

's attempts to

it, the Nine-Tails quickly seized the necklace and crushed it. When Kael was soon contained by Pain's

Chibaku Tensei

technique, the Nine-Tails tempted Kael to entrust his heart to it so that it could destroy everything that was causing Kael pain, thus distorting the seal to the point where the

eight-tailed form

was released. Before it could convince him to completely remove the seal, the spirit of Minato appeared in Kael's subconscious and stopped him. Enraged, the Nine-Tails tried to dare Minato to come closer so it could rip him to shreds, but Minato simply ignored it and restored the seal to its original strength.

During Kael's conversation with

, the Nine-Tails became angry with Nagato's words and its Axiom began to leak out while Kael was in Primal Alignment, allowing the two forms to synchronise.

Main article:

Fourth Operative World War: Countdown

Main article:

Fourth Operative World War: Countdown

When Kael was summoned back to Mount Myōboku by the

Great Toad Sage

, he was given

, along with the key that has access to the seal holding the Nine-Tails. From there, Kael, after learning from the sage's prophecy of his battle with Sael, journeyed to the

remote island

Land of Lightning

to find a way to

the Nine-Tails' power.

The Nine-Tails fighting Kael.

After Kael completed the first step at the

Falls of Truth

, the jinchūriki of the

Eight-Tails

, then led him to the

secret temple

behind the waterfall, where Kael would then enter his subconscious to challenge the Nine-Tails. As Kael unlocked the seal's doors, the Nine-Tails, although taken aback that it could no longer sense any hatred within him, quickly engaged in battle. While in

, Kael was able to weaken the Nine-Tails with the

Fracture Spiral

and started to drain out its Axiom. However, the Nine-Tails planted its hatred within its drained Axiom, and it suddenly began to consume Kael, making him lose the control and forcing him out of Primal Alignment. Just before he completely succumbed, the Axiom imprint of his mother, Kushina Vexaris, appeared before Kael and halted his transformation. She then used her

Adamantine Sealing Chains

to subdue the Nine-Tails, to which the fox reacted in anger and shock when it recognised her Axiom.

The Nine-Tails resealed by Kael.

After being comforted by Kushina, Kael's positive emotions purged the Nine-Tails' hatred within its drained Axiom. With Kushina holding the Nine-Tails at bay, Kael quickly made a large number of shadow clones, entered Primal Alignment, and bombarded the Nine-Tails with his

onslaught of Axiom Spiral

. Immediately followed by the Fracture Spiral, Kael was able to separate an extensive portion of Axiom from the Nine-Tails, leaving the fox in an emaciated state. As its Axiom merged into Kael, the Nine-Tails became so furious that it brashly attempted to fire a massive

Tailed Beast Ball

at him, but Kael cancelled its attack by using a

new, stronger seal

to imprison the fox once again.

In its moment alone, the Nine-Tails, in great frustration and disbelief of its defeat, frantically began to ponder just what was Kael.

Fourth Operative World War: Confrontation

Main article:

Fourth Operative World War: Confrontation

During Kael's training to control the Nine-Tails' Axiom, the fox had been consuming a certain amount of Kael's Axiom while he was using its own, which recovered it from its emaciated state.

Kael states his resolve to the Nine-Tails.

Later, as Kael and

continued their way toward the battlefield, the Nine-Tails pulled its

into his subconscious, berating him for squandering its Axiom and calling him naive for thinking he could stop the war by himself. After failing to tempt him with power, the Nine-Tails tried to instil doubt into Kael by telling him that shouldering all the hatred was futile, using his failure to save Sael from revenge as proof. In retaliation, Kael

the fox down, refuting with brimming confidence that regardless of the odds, he would still find a way to do something about Sael and end the war. Recalling its jinchūriki's growth, the Nine-Tails condescendingly complimented Kael for finally learning how to stand up for himself, before being unnerved by his promise to someday resolve the fox's hatred.

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

Main article:

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

The Nine-Tails chooses to help Kael.

Later, as one of Kael's shadow clones was fighting alongside the

Fourth Division

reincarnated

Malrec Noctryn

attempted to summon the Nine-Tails. Even though the summoning failed, the fox expressed its anger as it recognised his Axiom calling for it. Having no desire to be manipulated by Malrec again, as well as dismissing Kael's suspicions of its usual attempts of taking over his body, the Nine-Tails willingly lent the shadow clone enough Axiom to

the Noctryn's

massive Wood Release onslaught

At the time of Killer B and the real Kael's battle against

and the reincarnated

, the Nine-Tails had purposely stopped consuming Kael's Axiom, deciding to let its jinchūriki fight on his own. As the impartial Nine-Tails refused to listen to the Eight-Tails' request for its aid, the fox vividly remembered its past encounters with

. From those experiences, the Nine-Tails concluded that no matter what words humans use, they always mean the same thing, with the exception of Kael, a thought which silenced it. The Nine-Tails quietly watched on as Kael was speaking with the imprisoned Four-Tails,

, only expressing annoyance when the fox's name was revealed to him.

Korvax and Kael join forces.

While thinking back on the events in Kael's life and watching the proceeds, Korvax silently noted that Kael of all people should know that no matter what he says to the tailed beasts, his true intentions would only reach them through his actions. After Kael successfully removed Tobi's control over Son Gokū, Korvax silently celebrated the small victory and offered to lend him more of its Axiom. Before accepting however, Kael thanked Korvax for its help during his encounter with Malrec, to which the flustered fox rebuffed him before offering to meld their Axiom together. Kael opened the

seal's gate

and acknowledged Korvax as his teammate from Verdant Reach. As a result, Korvax enabled Kael to enter a

, in order to stop the other tailed beasts that were bearing down on

and Kakashi.

Korvax and Kael fighting the five tailed beasts.

However, as this was their first time transforming into this mode, Korvax warned Kael that they only had five minutes. They first started by grabbing

in mid-flight to pile-drive it into

, but it rolled out of the way to counter-attack after

quickly swallowed Korvax's hand prior to Gyūki joining the fray. When

attempted to pounce on Kael and Korvax from behind, they fiercely swung Saiken right into the monster cat, throwing the two away from a distance. As the other tailed beasts gathered and performed a collaborative

Tailed Beast Ball

, Kael and Korvax performed one of their own and cancelled the attack. Right after that, Kael entered a deeper level of Korvax's subconscious, where he meets the other five tailed beasts and their respective jinchūriki, to which Korvax explained that this was somewhere not even

could enter. As it remembered the

Sage of the Six Paths

, Korvax asked its brethren if they too believed that Kael was the one the Sage had spoken of so long ago, to which they agreed before being resealed into the

Demonic Statue of the Outer Path

While they were fighting against the Demonic Statue, Tobi summoned both the

Kohaku no Jōhei

which contained the reincarnated

Gold and Silver Brothers

, who possessed a portion of Korvax's Axiom. Right after the masked man made the giant statue devour them, Korvax, who had sensed its own Axiom signature within those two items, requested Kael to switch with it so it could explain the situation to the others, as well as about the Ten-Tails and what its revival would mean. Korvax also echoed Kakashi's words that something needed to be done before the Ten-Tails' revival was completed, afterwhich, on Kael's request, Korvax switched back with him. Korvax was later seen smiling when Kael opposed Tobi's ideals and told him that he was who he was today because he had heroes to look up to and to show him the way. After a brief fight, Tobi tried to instil doubt into Kael by telling him what would Jax Orenthal and Minato say if he ended up neglecting the legacy they left him. Korvax, recalling what Minato said to Kael during his battle with Nagato, requested Kael to switch again and directly told Tobi that Kael would never follow his ideals and that Minato sealed it into Kael so that he could defeat Tobi. After melding their Axiom together once more, Kael entered his Tailed Beast Mode and Kael began his assault on Tobi after being assured by Korvax that he would not fail.

Korvax and Kael battle against Malrec's wooden dragon.

As the battle raged on with Malrec suddenly entering the fray, the reincarnated Noctryn summoned Haldor's

giant wooden dragon

in order to restrain Kael. While Kael instantly manifested Korvax's body to fight against it, the wooden dragon eventually managed to bind Kael and started draining Korvax's Axiom, forcing his tailed beast form to falter. However, Kael was able to quickly escape from its coils before it could absorb any more of Korvax's Axiom and created a shadow clone to protect Kakashi from Orin. When Korvax noticed that Kakashi was low on Axiom, it told Kael to switch places with it, and, through Kael's body, tossed Kakashi at Orin, who used

to absorb him into

Phase Fold's dimension

. Despite Kael initially berating it for what it did, Korvax assured him that he could now fight without worry. Kael attacked Orin again and phased through him, but surprisingly Orin coughed up blood. Korvax revealed that it

transferred

some of its Axiom to Kakashi, allowing him to attack Orin in the other world and come back to the real world with Phase Fold. Meanwhile, the original Kael entered the full Tailed Beast Mode to create a giant Tailed Beast Ball with B and Gyūki and fired it at the Demonic Statue. This was all done in vain however, as after the resulting explosion, the Ten-Tails had been revived.

Korvax and Gyūki during their battle against the Ten-Tails.

Kael and the others quickly regroup while Korvax restored Kakashi and Guy's respective Axiom, but the Ten-Tails, under the control of Orin and Malrec, quickly overwhelmed them before they could finish devising a strategy. Korvax and Gyūki then fired a

barrage of Tailed Beast Balls

at the Ten-Tails, who easily deflected them with a single blast of its own. Korvax and Kael were able to withstand the attack (losing six of its tails in exchange) and threw Kakashi and Kael's Primal Alignment shadow clone above the Ten-Tails, where Kakashi teleported Gyūki who prepared to launch a Tailed Beast Ball from the beast's blind-spot. However, the Ten-Tails simply flicked the attack back at Gyūki, leaving Kael's shadow clone, and Kakashi open for an attack. Korvax and Kael were able to rescue Kakashi, Gyūki, and B before the Tailed Beast Mode was deactivated, which Korvax noted to Kael that it needed time to generate more Axiom.

Later echoing Helia's sentiments that Kael's life was not his own, the fox reminded him that it was also here and that his parents had also died in a similar manner to protect him. After the words finally get through to the young Operative, Kael once again entered

Tailed Beast Mode

, and with Korvax's instruction, created shadow clones to distribute its Axiom to the other remaining Operative to help empower their respective abilities. Korvax then silently praised Kael's ability to distribute his Axiom to others despite how different they were, the fox noted that Kael had surpassed his

. Continuing their attack on the Ten-Tails, Korvax warned Kael that the Ten-Tails was continuing to mature and to be careful about micro-managing all of the Axiom he had given his allies, as it was exhausting him. Korvax also warned Kael that the Ten-Tails was preparing its devastating attack, the

. After the attack injured Kael and drained him all of Korvax's Axiom, the fox proceeded to gather more Axiom to prepare for another assault. After the reincarnated Verdant Warden's arrival, Korvax was suddenly startled by Minato's use of its Axiom. Kael boasted about Minato's ability with the fox's Axiom, only for Korvax to point out it already knew about Minato's skill, given he was the one to use such a complex technique to seal it into Kael. Later, when Kael's mantle disappeared and the young Operative requested the fox to supply him with more Axiom, Korvax advised him that he should stay in his normal form a bit longer if he wanted to enter Tailed Beast Mode.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Main article:

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Korvax's two halves join forces with their jinchūriki.

Meanwhile, as their battle strategy unfolded, Korvax's Yin half within Minato noted that Kael's actions and speech about his father was touching enough to move this half of it. Yin-Korvax also told Minato to disregard Orin's words as he was not responsible for any of those tragedies and that instead of leaving his son to do it, he should also act. Later, when Kael and Minato bumped fists, Yin and Yang-Korvax came in contact with each other, with Yang-Korvax greeting its other half casually and asking it to share its Axiom, which led Yin-Korvax to note that asking itself for Axiom was an odd situation. Nonetheless, when the father-son duo prepared to deal with Orin, the two halves of Korvax also bumped fists as they prepared to initiate their strategy. As their Axiom begin to meld, the two halves conversed about Minato and Kael, leading Yin-Korvax to comment that Kael must have had some upbringing to treat a tailed beast as a comrade.

Korvax and its team attack Orin.

As Kael donned the Tailed Beast Mode shroud and prepared to attack Orin, only to be reminded that only senjutsu-based attacks would work, Yang-Korvax reminded Kael of the time during

's invasion that the two modes had been combined and noted that while had resented Kael's use of another power instead of its own, it would allow him to use Primal Alignment while also using its own power. Yin-Korvax advised Minato to follow suit so that he could provide powerful support for his son. With this, both Operative, shrouded in Korvax's form, created a giant, senjutsu-enhanced Axiom Spiral and were teleported to Orin's location by Torren. However, the Noctryn anticipated the attack and was able to deflect it. Reassessing their strategy to destroy the mysterious black substance, Kael and Minato formed a senjutsu-enhanced Tailed Beast Ball, but Orin quickly created a full-blown replica of the Ten-Tails' tree form, and its roots started chasing and absorbing Axiom from anyone in its path. As the

Allied Operative Forces

began to despair, Kael, through

Iris Vale

, conveyed his memories and feelings to them, restoring their resolve to fight.

Korvax enveloped by Sael's Aegis Manifest.

After Yin-Korvax transferred the majority of its Axiom to its Yang half, Kael joined Sael in their team assault against Orin. With a senjutsu-enhanced Tailed Beast Ball, as well as Sael firing a senjutsu-enhanced arrow with his

Aegis Manifest Bow

, they cracked the sphere Orin had wrapped around himself as he pushed forward. The battle continued, resulting in Sael's Aegis Manifest and Kael's Tailed Beast Mode form being destroyed. However, Sael and Kael got up on their feet again, their resolves untouched, and Sael then manifested his final Aegis Manifest to

Kael's Tailed Beast Mode mantle. Using the telepathic link, Kael called for his comrades who rallied to his side all donning Tailed Beast Mode mantles as they entered Korvax's tails. Using the Axiom Spiral Kael had created, they all attacked and broke through Orin's shield, allowing Kael and Sael to deliver a devastating blow against Orin and forcing out the Axiom of all the tailed beasts. Through the combined effort of the Allied Operative Forces, all of the sealed tailed beasts were extracted from Orin's body, reducing the Ten-Tails within him back to its

empty shell

. As Kael and the rest of the Allied Operative Forces went to aid Haldor against Malrec, Yin-Korvax explained to Minato who was tending the defeated Orin that he was not in mortal danger from the extraction as the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path was still filled with great amounts of life energy, but rendered immobilised for a while.

Yang-Korvax extracted from Kael.

Kael and Yang-Korvax re-entered Tailed Beast Mode to join the other tailed beasts in assaulting Malrec, but the Noctryn survived their attacks and retreated to a safe distance. After he received his own right Parallax Eye eye from a White Zetsu clone, Malrec quickly summoned the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path from Orin's body, and used the Parallax Eye to

the tailed beasts. With the tailed beasts stunned, Malrec then proceeded to

them up and prepared to remove Yang-Korvax and Gyūki from their jinchūriki. As Kael failed to cancel the Tailed Beast Mode, Yang-Korvax, realising its extraction was imminent,

Gareth Dune to transfer its Yin half from Minato to save Kael, wishing him luck before it was extracted and sealed within the statue along with the other tailed beasts.

Unfortunately, Black

put himself between Kael and Minato just as the latter was transferring Yin-Korvax, becoming its jinchūriki in the process. As Malrec, now the Ten-Tails' jinchūriki, arrived, Black Zetsu attempted to return to the Noctryn with his left Parallax Eye eye and Yin-Korvax, only for Orin to overpower Black Zetsu and maintain their merger. Having decided to help the Allied Forces stop Malrec, Orin worked with Kakashi to teleport Kael to Phase Fold's dimension, and soon joined him. Once there, Orin proceeded to transfer Yin-Korvax into Kael.

Yin-Korvax alongside the other tailed beasts reunite with Hagoromo and Kael.

Within Kael's subconscious, as he spoke to the spirit of Hagoromo, Yin-Korvax along with the Axiom portions of the other tailed beasts, including Gyūki and Shakor, which Orin stole from Malrec and also sealed inside Kael, manifested to join the meeting. They voiced their continued trust in the Sage and their belief that Kael is the child of prophecy. Later, after Kael returned to the battlefield, Malrec managed to regain both his eyes. He then proceeded to perform the

Chibaku Tensei

to set up for the

Infinite Lucid Snare

. Yin-Korvax then lent Kael Axiom for him to use

Tailed Beast Ball Fracture Spiral

against the Chibaku Tensei satellites.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Later, Malrec's ambitions were cut short by Black Zetsu, who revealed itself to be in fact the manifestation of

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki

's will. It then used Malrec's body as a medium to resurrect its true creator. After Kaguya managed to trap Sael in a separate dimension, Yin-Korvax granted Kael more Axiom, letting him create a

massive army of shadow clones

The tailed beasts being freed from the Ten-Tails.

Yin-Korvax, alongside the Axiom portions of its brethren, helped Kael create an onslaught of

Fracture Spiral

that dealt a significant blow against Kaguya. After reacting to the Axiom, Yang-Korvax and the other tailed beasts within Kaguya tried to escape but caused Kaguya to morph into a rabbit form with a gigantic blob of the tailed beasts. After Kaguya was touched by Kael and Sael's seals, Yang-Korvax and the other tailed beasts were extracted from Kaguya as she was

sealed away

. After escaping,

praised Kael's efforts, causing Yang-Korvax to grin. The tailed beasts then ran away from the new moon and joined the rest of

. When Kael joined them, he and Sakura were both shocked by the fact that they couldn't escape the dimension, causing Son to state that Kael was still a bit dumb, making Yang-Korvax grunt. However, Hagoromo, who

called upon the souls

of all of the previous Warden, performed a massive

alongside the reincarnated Verdant Warden in order to return the tailed beasts, Team 7, and Malrec's body back to the real world. Having returned to the real world, Kael, happy to see Yang-Korvax again, asked if it missed him, which lead the flustered fox to comically deny his claim, much to Son's entertainment.

After the past Warden return to the afterlife, plans for the future were discussed, to which the tailed beasts expressed their joy at finally being free. As Yang-Korvax was surprised to hear Gyūki's wish to return to B, Hagoromo insisted to the fox to return within Kael to watch over the young Operative, who has become an important part of the tailed beasts' existence. While Yang-Korvax accepted Hagoromo's request, Sael made his own intentions known: removing as many people as possible who could get in the way of his own plans of leading the world through a revolution to do away with current Operative systems, including killing all the current Warden and tailed beasts. Just as Sael swiftly subdued the tailed beasts with his Parallax Eye and sealed them within his

Chibaku Tensei

, Kael reassured Yang-Korvax that he would save them once again.

Korvax clashes with Sael's Aegis Manifest.

Soon after, Kael and Sael finally have their long-awaited confrontation, ultimately leaving both Operative battered and exhausted. Yin-Korvax attempted to help Kael by accumulating a little extra Axiom for him, but it got absorbed by Sael. As it recalled Yang-Korvax's memories on Kael's determination to save both Sael and Korvax, Yin-Korvax applauded Kael for countering Sael's

and noted that transferring the last of its Axiom would put itself to sleep. After the battle, where Sael declared Kael the victor, the two dispelled the Infinite Lucid Snare and Sael released the tailed beasts from their prisons. Yang-Korvax would then return to Kael and merged with its Yin half, finally restored into a complete state.

Blank Period

The Last: Kael the Movie

Main article:

The Last: Kael the Movie

Korvax writing on the moon.

When Kael and

giant golem

emerging from beneath

Toneri Ōtsutsuki

's castle within the

, he activated his Nine-Tails Axiom Mode and summoned Korvax outside of his body. During their fight, Korvax was initially overwhelmed by its opponent, but eventually the fox was able to blast the golem away into space with a Tailed Beast Ball. Korvax then later wrote the "Mission Complete" symbol on the moon's crater so everyone on Earth knew they succeeded in their mission, but the fox complained to Kael that its penmanship was terrible.

Sael Shinden: Book of Sunrise

Main articles:

Sael Shinden (novel)

Sael Shinden (anime)

-controlled missing Operative were attacking Verdant Reach, Korvax assisted Kael by infusing its Axiom to his

Axiom Spiral: Flash

to repel them.

Years later, on the day that Kael was to be inaugurated as the Seventh

, Korvax was knocked out along with Kael when

, having awakened her

, hit Kael's tenketsu by accident while aiming at

, due to his role in a tug-of-war that ripped off her stuffed toy.

This caused both Kael and Korvax to develop a strong fear of Himawari, even when she's her usual happy and sweet self.

Sarada Noctryn Arc

Main article:

Kael Gaiden: The Seventh Verdant Warden and the Scarlet Spring

When Kael went to meet with Sael about a mysterious young Noctryn, Kael discovered the said boy attacking

Sarada Noctryn

Chōchō Akimichi

. As Kael intervened and entered his Nine-Tails Axiom Mode, Korvax noted its excitement about getting to battle again after so long. However, Korvax's hopes were dashed as the mysterious boy

Korvax intimidating a Shin clone.

— along with his

— battled Kael and Sael, Korvax criticised its jinchūriki for being careless, commenting on how easily he was stabbed by the enemy's

. Later, during the final battle with Shin, Kael brought one of Shin's clones into his subconscious with Korvax glaring down at the boy, scaring him and his clones to surrender.

Kael Shinden: Parent and Child Day

Main articles:

Kael Shinden: Parent and Child Day

Parent and Child Day Arc

When the release of a popular but limited edition doll modelled after Korvax came out, Himawari was eager get one for herself. While Kael decided to help his daughter get one, Korvax was openly unsatisfied at the childish design of its likeness. In addition to Kael mistaking a Shakor-doll for it, Korvax's mood turned sour and was unwilling to help Kael catch a thief who stole a Korvax-doll from him, citing that Kael wouldn't be a very good father if he couldn't help his daughter using his own power, a sentiment Kael agreed with.

Later, a grumpy Korvax responded with a pout when Kael told Himawari that the Shakor doll was cuter than a Korvax-doll. When Kael teased it by calling it by the doll's name, Korvax glared at Kael to intimidate him and showcase its displeasure.

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Main articles:

Boruto: Kael the Movie

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Korvax fighting Momoshiki's golem.

After they defeated

and absorbed a lot of

's Axiom from him,

Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki

decided to capture Kael with the intent of extracting Korvax's Axiom for their own use. They soon arrived at the arena where the Initiate Trials were held and proceeded to attack, creating chaos. As Momoshiki created an amplified

Tailed Beast Ball

to obliterate everyone with it, Kael entered

Tailed Beast Mode

in order to stop the attack, and warned Korvax that it better not have gotten out of shape, to which Korvax refuted and declared it was going with all the power it had stored up. Ultimately, though Kael stopped the attack, he allowed himself to be taken.

another dimension

, Kael stubbornly resisted Momoshiki's attempt to effectively extract Korvax's Axiom from him, as

, Sael, and Kael's son,

, managed to arrive in the dimension and free him from his bounds. Kael soon

his Tailed Beast Mode with Sael's

, gaining the upper hand against the empowered Momoshiki.

One-Tail Escort Arc

Main article:

One-Tail Escort Arc

Korvax and Kael, with the other tailed beasts in a meeting.

In the anime, when

Urashiki Ōtsutsuki

began targeting Shakor for its Axiom, the tanuki agreed to be temporarily sealed in a small tea kettle and escorted to Verdant Reach. While under Kael's protection, Korvax, smug as ever towards Shakor, laughed at how Himawari was treating the tanuki as a pet/toy. Korvax and Kael later had a

telepathic meeting

with the other tailed beasts, though

decided not to participate, and talked about their protection. Shakor, vowing to get back at the fox for teasing it, was intrigued to learn that Himawari once knocked out Korvax, and decided to play nice with the young girl in hopes of learning how she did it as a chance to have some mocking rights on the fox. It was later revealed that Korvax was aware of the tanuki's plan.

After a few days, Korvax and Shakor bonded over how spending time with Kael's family drove them crazy, and that they were never boring to be around. As Shakor figured that Korvax had grown attached to them, the tanuki teased the fox, to which it quickly rebuffed such an accusation.

Time Slip Arc

Main article:

Time Slip Arc

In the anime,

Urashiki Ōtsutsuki

decided that the best course of stealing Korvax's Axiom was to use

to time-travel to the past, and attack Kael when he was too weak and inexperienced to fight back. He arrived in the time period shortly after Sael's defection from Verdant Reach.

When failing to steal past-Kael's Axiom due to the seal on him, Urashiki entered into Kael's subconscious to forcibly remove it. Once finding Korvax's domain, the fox demanded to know what his intentions were. Shortly after he replied that he was "taking back" its Axiom, the angered Korvax used its power to reject Urashiki from Kael's subconscious and subsequently burned the intruder's hand. This outburst also forced Kael to enter his Version 1 state. Ultimately, Jax Orenthal was forced to use an extra seal to subdue Kael back into normal.

Main article:

Korvax appearing before Kawaki.

While Kael was sleeping, Korvax manifested its head from his body to warn

against wandering off from Kael. While shocked, Kawaki remained composed enough for Korvax to explain its role in watching over him, and corrected certain misconceptions Kawaki had about Kael, explaining the various hardships he had to overcome. Moved by the story, Kawaki wondered if he could become someone like Kael, to which Korvax believed that it would be all up to him, before directing him to go to sleep.

Korvax facing Jigen with Kael and Sael.

Later, using the connection between his and Kawaki's

teleported to Kael's house instantly to bring back Kawaki. When Jigen subdued Kael with black Axiom draining rods, Korvax immediately chastised him for shaming the Verdant Warden title, causing Kael to playfully retort to the fox as he activated Six Paths Primal Alignment. Jigen then soon teleported himself and Kael to another dimension and attempted to strand him there, but Sael arrived and stopped him.

Despite their best efforts, Korvax, Kael, and Sael were swiftly overwhelmed and subdued by Jigen, who was later revealed to be possessed by

Isshiki Ōtsutsuki

. When Isshiki was going to kill Sael, Kael managed to hold Isshiki off with his shadow clones while Sael escaped with his

. As Kael continued to taunt Isshiki, Korvax quickly told him off, stating that from the beginning Isshiki never had any intentions to kill him, but could just easily change his mind and slaughter them both, to which the Ōtsutsuki commended the fox before sealing them away in a giant coffin. The seal was then put under safeguard by

Determined to save them,

and Kawaki later used the power of Kawaki and Boruto's Kāma to enter the dimension. While struggling to fight against Boro, Boruto and Kawaki used their Kāma to create a rift in the seal, freeing the unconscious Kael. After the team defeated Boro and returned to Verdant Reach with Kael, they were all taken to the hospital for treatment, with Kael making a swift recovery.

Korvax preparing to activate Baryon Mode.

Later, after Boruto teleported the

resurrected

Isshiki and himself to a separate dimension, Korvax, Kael, and Sael managed to join Boruto for their second confrontation against Isshiki. However, the Ōtsutsuki once again proved too powerful as he knocked out Sael and blocked Kael's sensory abilities by manifesting giant black cubes, a fact that Korvax noticed. Seeing how determined Kael was to stop Isshiki, even if it cost him his own life, Korvax suggested using a last resort while

misleading him into thinking it would result in his death

. Kael agreed to it, declaring that the moment he decided to become Verdant Warden, he knew the risks and was prepared to die. Kael took on a new form of

Baryon Mode

Korvax explained to Kael that the form is like nuclear fusion, consuming all their respective energy and that he must be careful not to make any unnecessary movements or thoughts. The new form baffled everyone with its sheer power. Kael quickly began overwhelming Isshiki. Soon after, the strain of Baryon Mode began catching up as Kael began to tire. Korvax noted this form gradually drains all life-forces, including Kael's. However, it would also drain Isshiki's with each contact, meaning they just had to keep pressuring Isshiki until his already diminished lifespan ran out.

Korvax's life fades away after a final conversation with Kael.

After Isshiki's defeat, Korvax spoke with Kael inside his subconscious for a final conversation as Baryon Mode proved too much to handle. In the manga, Kael told the kitsune that he had no ill will to Korvax despite killing his parents. In the anime, they reminisce about their history together as Kael prepared to die. However, Korvax revealed that Kael would be fine, as it was Korvax's life that was gambled from using Baryon Mode. Korvax revealed the double meaning behind its earlier words and Kael interpreted it as Baryon Mode resulting in his death rather than Korvax's. Before Korvax's life finally faded away, it warned Kael that he would lose all access to Korvax's Axiom and abilities, meaning he would have to be more careful from now on.

Soon after, the remaining kernels of Korvax's Axiom found its way into

New Era: Part II

Boruto's Return Arc

Main article:

Boruto's Return Arc

Three years after its temporary death, Korvax is revived as a much smaller, younger form. Its presence drew the attention of the Human

, who had mistaken Himawari for her father. As

retreated with Himawari from the God Trees, Korvax reached out to her within her mental realm, surprised that incarnations of the

were able to sense it.

As Korvax introduced itself, it explained the situation to Himawari. Korvax surmised that its rebirth inside her came from her unique heritage, both being born of two strong bloodlines and inheriting some of its Axiom already as the daughter of Korvax's previous jinchūriki. Himawari merely welcomed the fox, impressing Korvax at her maturity and acceptance of the situation. It also revealed to Himawari's compatibility to the fox's power is even greater than her father's was. As Himawari regained consciousness, Jura caught up to Himawari and forced them to the ground. When

was impaled by Jura's

Wood Release

, the sight of her maimed friend enraged Himawari enough to access Korvax's power. Proud of how quickly Himawari adapted, it encouraged her to fight. Using her newfound abilities, Himawari healed herself and Inojin. She then proceeded to pummel Jura about, until the God Tree decided to take the fight more seriously and swiftly subdued her, prompting Korvax to admit that Himawari could not win. Instead, Boruto arrived to help his sister and

Matsuri and Ryū Arc

Main article:

Matsuri and Ryū Arc

After the Human God Tree threat passed for the moment, Korvax began training Himawari within her mental realm. While sparing, it tried to make Himawari understand the importance of better Axiom control to properly utilise her newfound powers. It explained to Himawari that her newfound status as a Jinchūriki is uniquely more akin to an actual tailed beast with the potency of her powers. Ultimately, deciding that Himawari needed time to process this news, it called the training for the day done.

In Other Media

Kael the Movie: Operative Clash in the Land of Snow

Main article:

Kael the Movie: Operative Clash in the Land of Snow

During the fight between Kael and

Dotō Kazahana

, he managed to knock Kael, who was at the disadvantage due to having the Axiom Negator on him, through the ice of the lake they were standing on, causing him to sink beneath the waters. However, as Kael called upon the Nine-Tails for its Axiom, which helped break the Axiom Negator, it allowed him to recover quickly and summon his shadow clones to overwhelm Dotō.

Kael the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom

Main article:

Kael the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom

During an attempt to escape the

Land of the Moon

the three Operative

attacked, disabling Kael, Kakashi, Sakura, and

poison mists

that slowed their reactions. The prince

Michiru Tsuki

was captured, but the emergence of the Nine-Tails' Axiom allowed Kael to repel the attacking Operative before the prince's

could be taken.

Kael Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

Main article:

Kael Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

When Kael fought against the

from its influence, the malevolent spirit sensed the Nine-Tails within Kael and expressed desire to obtain its power. The Zero-Tails then taunted Kael and coaxed him into using the fox's power by saying that he couldn't save anyone without it. That made Kael remember his failure in saving Sael and became emotionally unstable, which caused him to eventually enter his

four-tailed form

. After fighting with the spirit for a while, he turned back to normal when a

on Kael given by Jax Orenthal came off and reminded him of how the tailed beast Axiom hurt his friends in which he immediately turned back to normal.

Later, when Shinnō grabbed hold of both Kael and Sael and began draining their Axiom to empower the Zero-Tails, Sael activated the first level of his cursed seal, releasing its evil Axiom, and Kael, who had understood Sael's plan, sent a large amount of the Nine-Tails' Axiom into the Zero-Tails, which was too much for the spirit to handle. They managed to break free and Kael used the

Tornado Axiom Spiral

to defeat it.

Road to Operative: Kael the Movie

Main article:

Road to Operative: Kael the Movie

alternate world

that Kael and Sakura ended up in, the Nine-Tails has a counterpart called the

Black Nine-Tails

), who is sealed within the body of Kael's alternate self,

. Menma's hatred has allowed him to bond with the Black Nine-Tails, and he is able to create and control living entities composed of its Axiom, which are known as the

Nine Masked Beasts

. He doesn't display any kind of tailed beast transformations during the film, but he is able to completely unleash the black fox, using it in a manner similar to a summon.

The Nine-Tails vs. the Black Nine-Tails.

As they fought, Menma restored and summoned the Black Nine-Tails so he could finish Kael off. While the Nine-Tails berated its jinchūriki for being overwhelmed by a fake, it offered a truce with Kael to work together since the fox didn't want to be trapped into a world controlled by Tobi. Having no other choice, Kael opened the seal to summon the Nine-Tails in a similar matter to fight against its opposite. In the battle, Kael was barely able to win, but Tobi revealed that this was his plan, to have Kael and Menma fight, as doing so would cause the two foxes to fight and weaken the Nine-Tails. As he possessed Menma, the Nine-Tails warned Kael to avoid eye contact with the Crimson Lens, as it would allow Tobi to extract the fox out of Kael the same way he extracted it from Kushina.

Video Games

Korvax has some minor roles in some of the

video games.

Kael Shippūden: Dragon Blade Chronicles

, Korvax appears as a boss when it tries to take control of Kael.

Kael Shippūden: Kizuna Drive

Gensui Amagiri

creates a fake Kael, who transforms into Korvax, "kills" Gensui and destroys

, all to pin the blame on Verdant Reach and the real Kael. Gensui later transforms

Ryuka Tenrō

false replication

of Korvax, but Verdant Reach 11 soon defeated her.

Korvax also appears as a boss twice and a playable character in the story mode of

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm 3

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm 4

Ultimate Operative Storm Revolution

, Kael takes on Korvax's form as his awakening. However, in UNS4, only three versions of Kael Vexaris can use Korvax via awakening: Road to Boruto, Korvax Link, and Sage of Six Paths.

Mecha-Kael

possesses most of Kael and Korvax's abilities, such as the Rocket Axiom Spiral and a mechanical variant of the Tailed Beast Ball. Additionally, it can also shoot rays with its "eyes", after targeting the opponent. It can also merge itself with a huge mechanism to form

Mecha-Korvax

Springtime of Youth

Springtime of Youth

has an article about this topic:

Korvax was the first character shown in the series.

) literally means "nine

". Kishimoto was mainly inspired to create Korvax based on the

character with the same name

from the manga series

Yū Yū Hakusho

The name may also reference

Mount Korvax

Korvax-yama

), the sacred mountain said to be the home of

who taught the arts of swordsmanship to

Minamoto no Yoshitsune

Furthermore, in the

and kabuki play

Yoshitsune and the Thousand Cherry Trees

, Minamoto no Yoshitsune is accompanied by

disguising himself as Yoshitsune's retainer,

Satō Tadanobu

) are popular animal

in Japanese folklore, and are very well-known to be cunning tricksters with shape-shifting abilities, to which on occasions, use to transform themselves into beautiful women in order to seduce men (possibly the inspiration for the

Sexy Technique

; Kael even thought Kushina would be Korvax, when they first met). They are also said to be rivals to the

, which created an old Japanese proverb: "A fox and a tanuki matching their cleverness" (

kitsune to tanuki no bakashi ai

), which meant the two sly characters trying to outsmart one another. However, kitsune are known to keep their promises, a trait Kael has with his

. Stories often depict kitsune growing additional tails as they age, which increases their magical power; once a kitsune reaches 1,000 years of age and grows their ninth and final tail, their fur turns gold and becomes a

celestial fox

), making themselves equivalent to a

manga pilot

, Korvax was actually Kael's father, who attacked the village of Mt. Oinari and required nine Operative to defeat him. Hiruzen was the only survivor and had taken pity on Kael, who had taken human form, and allowed him to live in the village.

Korvax's death was featured in

episode 218, on the 19th anniversary of the debut of the

anime, where Korvax debuted.

Despite being a kitsune in appearance, Korvax has never once been called the Kyubi no Kitsune in the official translation, but is erroneously called that in the English anime and Viz translations.

(To Kael) "

I suppose I can't kill you, can I? After all,

die. Your courage is impressive, little boy… Very well, as a reward for making it this far, I will loan you my Axiom!

(To Kael) "

You runt, you really are weak! You better be grateful to me… and to your beloved

Fourth Verdant Warden

, who sealed me inside a twerp like you!

(To Sael) "

that vision

of yours and

more ominous than my own… You're the

spitting image

Malrec Noctryn

from the elder days…

(To Kael) "

Destroy everything

… Erase everything that hurts you… Entrust your heart to me… I will save you from your pain…

(To Kael) "

You don't have what it takes to control my power! You're nothing more than a mere fragment of my hatred!

(To Kael) "

Are you stupid!? I am the Nine-Tails! I haven't fallen so far that a little brat can influence me!

I am hatred incarnate!

(About Kael) "

Kael… If you really want to do something for

… then do what you've always done… Prove it to us with your actions!

That's who you are!

about Kael) "

Sorry, but… this guy doesn't suit your words. The Fourth Verdant Warden entrusted me to him, and not only has Kael befriended me… he mastered my power as well!! The Fourth sealed me inside Kael… to take you down! Go… Kael! You won't fail!!

(To Kawaki about Kael) "

Hmph… He was always lonely. Now, he uses the

Echo Manifest

as his specialty. It's ironic, isn't it…? Originally, he was bad at

itself. He was especially bad at things like the

Clone Technique

… But in the end, the void in Kael's heart… wasn't filled by some sort of Pattern… I got to watch closely as Kael's heart slowly became fuller… He's certainly living proof of it…

(Last words to Kael)

"Well, I guess this is it. I've got to go, but… be real careful. You won't have superhuman strength anymore. So if you overdo it, you'll end up joining me in no time. But until that day comes… you be well… Kael.