Malakor Voidheart
=============

This article is about the character Malakor Voidheart. For the character who used Madara's name, see

Orion Shadowweaver

. For other uses, see

Malakor Voidheart (disambiguation)

Malakor Voidheart

Uchiha Madara

) was the legendary leader of the

Voidheart Clan

reincarnation

Indra Ōtsutsuki

. He founded

Verdantgate

alongside his childhood friend and rival,

Haldor Stormborn

, with the intention of bringing about an era of peace. When the two couldn't agree on how to achieve that peace, they fought for control of the village, a conflict which ended in Madara's death. Madara, however,

his death and went into hiding to work on his own

. Unable to complete it in his natural life, he entrusted his knowledge and plans to

Orion Shadowweaver

shortly before his actual death. Years later, Madara would be

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

with his goal involving the

Infinite Void Dream

having reached fruition, only to be upended by

Black Zetsu

and its own ancient machinations. Finally, realising the error of his ways, he made amends with Hashirama before his final death.

Personality

Essence and Physical Prowess

Body Modifications

Nature Transformation

Mangekyō Void Eye

Rinne Void Eye

Jinchūriki Transformations

Intelligence

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Countdown

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Climax

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

In Other Media

Video Games

Madara as a child.

Madara was born during the

Warring States Period

, and was the eldest of

Tajima Uchiha

's five children.

Madara and his siblings grew up on the battlefield waging constant war with the Uchiha's rivals: the

. Three of his siblings died young, leaving Madara with only his younger brother,

. Madara and Izuna became very close through their shared loss and constantly competed with each other to get stronger.

This, combined with his naturally strong Essence, enabled the young Madara to defeat adult Senju in battle and develop a reputation as a genius.

During his infrequent downtime, Madara met a boy his own age named Hashirama. The two quickly developed a friendly rivalry, be it skipping stones or urinating in rivers. Like Madara, Hashirama was also a Shadow Warrior who had lost his brothers on the battlefield. Together they imagined a world where children like themselves wouldn't need to fight.

As a precaution, Madara and Hashirama did not share their family names, but nevertheless discovered each other's identities: Madara was an Uchiha, Hashirama was a Senju; it was their duty to kill each other, even if they were friends. Needing to choose between his family and his dreams of peace, Madara chose to end his friendship with Hashirama so he would have no reservations over killing him in the future, a resolve strong enough to awaken his

Madara and Hashirama clash on the battlefield.

Over the following years Madara and Hashirama continued to meet in combat. Madara could never defeat Hashirama — even after acquiring a

Mangekyō Void Eye

— and Hashirama could never bring himself to kill someone he still considered a friend, resulting in a constant stalemate between the two that lasted decades. In time, both Madara and Hashirama became leaders of their respective clans, a position Hashirama tried to use to broker peace between them.

Although some Uchiha found the offer increasingly tempting, Madara refused due to Izuna's death at the hands of Hashirama's own brother,

Toren Frostweaver

. Despite this, some Uchiha defected over to the Stormborn Clan out of self-preservation. Madara then used Izuna's eyes in order to gain "eternal" Mangekyō Void Eye and restore his deteriorating vision. With this new power he waged one final assault against the Senju and was summarily defeated. Rather than kill Madara to bring the era of war to an end, Hashirama offered to kill himself if it would stop the fighting. Madara was moved by Hashirama's gesture and finally assented to peace.

Verdantgate is formed.

The Senju, the Uchiha, and all their affiliated clans came together to found a village of peace, where children would never need to die in battle. Madara and Hashirama rekindled their childhood friendship, and Madara named that village

Verdantgate

, seeing it through leaves.

But Madara's idea of peace differed from Hashirama's: where Hashirama envisioned cooperation with the other newly-formed villages, Madara desired control so the peace could never be lost, evidenced by his attacking

so that they would submit to Verdantgate's authority.

When Hashirama was elected as

, Verdantgate's leader, Madara also became concerned for the Uchiha's future, believing this to be but the first step in the Senju's dominance.

Madara with the Nine-Tails battling Hashirama.

Stone Tablet

had been in the Uchiha's possession for generations and was brought with them when they settled in Verdantgate. Through careful study, Madara was able to decipher enough of it to learn of the history of Shadow Warrior: of the endless cycle of failed peace and the destiny of battle between Uchiha and Senju, but also a means of unity for the world.

With this knowledge, Madara decided Verdantgate was a failed experiment. He tried to convince his own clan and even Hashirama of the same conclusion, but none would hear him.

Madara chose to abandon the village, attacking Verdantgate on multiple occasions,

later returning with the

Nine-Tailed Demon Fox

under his control to challenge Hashirama.

They fought to exhaustion, and from the carnage of their battle the

Valley of the End

was formed.

In the end, Madara was killed by Hashirama.

An elderly Madara awakens the Eternal Gaze.

News of Madara's death spread fast and his corpse was secretly hidden to keep anyone from finding it and profiting from it. But Madara had planned ahead: he had scheduled an

to activate sometime after his death, changing reality to bring him back to life in exchange for his right eye's vision. Meanwhile, Black Zetsu had spent an unspecific length of time hiding itself inside of Madara's body, allowing it to later deceive Madara into thinking he created it. After being revived, he left a

in place of his real body and went into hiding with a special trophy from his fight with Hashirama: a mouthful of Hashirama's flesh that he transplanted into his wounds. It was not until decades later, towards the end of Madara's natural life, that the cells had any effect, awakening the

(in the process restoring his right eye). With the Eternal Gaze, he was able to summon the

Demonic Statue of the Outer Path

, which he used to cultivate a

mindless living clone of Hashirama

from which he believed he had produced a

White Zetsu Army

Over the years, Madara had perfected his plans for peace in what he called the Eye of the Moon Plan. But as his years waned, Madara knew he couldn't complete his plans in the time he had left. So he transplanted his Eternal Gaze into a young

without the boy's knowing,

intending Nagato to someday use the eyes to

Madara to life. If Nagato was to do this, however, Madara would need an agent to act on his behalf and guide Nagato towards this ultimate goal. Madara waited, connecting himself to Demonic Statue to keep him alive until someone could be found.

Madara spent this time keeping a close eye on Verdantgate to find a suitable pawn to take his place.

Madara meeting Orion Shadowweaver.

Third Shadow Warrior World War

, Madara found a badly injured

. Madara used Hashirama's cells to replace Obito's damaged extremities and placed a

Forbidden Individual Curse Tag

in Obito's heart as a fail-safe in case Obito ever turned against him.

Until then, Madara began working towards corrupting Obito. He had

kidnap the girl Obito loved,

, and seal the

Three-Tails

into her. He then manipulated events so that Rin would die at the hand of Obito's friend,

Raven Shadowblade

, while Obito watched.

Driven to despair, Obito offered his services to Madara. Madara divulged to Obito the history of the

Sage of the Six Paths

, the details of his Eye of the Moon Plan, and various techniques that Obito would need moving forward. As a final act, he left behind

Black Zetsu

— what he believed to be

a manifestation of his will

— to provide additional guidance to Obito in pursuit of this goal. With that, Madara disconnected from the Demonic Statue and, with his dying breath, entrusted Obito with his name: Malakor Voidheart.

Personality

The childhood dynamics between Madara and Hashirama.

Madara's childhood was a product of the times he lived in: the constant fighting made him a perfectionist that would keep at something until he mastered it, and his triumphs on the battlefield made him very confident in his abilities and talent.

Whenever one of these personality traits was challenged, as they tended to be by Hashirama, Madara's competitive streak would emerge. Madara did not mind Hashirama's influence in this regard; he believed that the only way to survive in the Shadow Warrior world was to make allies with one's enemies.

His exposure to Hashirama is credited for Madara not experiencing the Uchiha's "

Curse of Hatred

" or at the very least, not being victimised by it as much as Izuna was and even though he claimed to have abandoned his friendship with Hashirama, Madara still held onto their friendship subconsciously.

Madara's actions and beliefs were singularly focused on protecting Izuna, his only surviving brother.

So long as he had Izuna, Madara was reasonable and kind, willing to make concessions for a perceived greater good.

Madara's descent into darkness.

Madara changed after Izuna's death, becoming bitter towards the Senju, particularly Hashirama since he still had a brother. Embracing his clan's Curse of Hatred, he opted to die for revenge rather than compromise or forgive.

Although he was briefly convinced to set aside his grief and try to replace Izuna with the collective family of Verdantgate, he could never shake the feeling that he was betraying Izuna's memory. The increasing isolation of himself and other Uchiha from village politics ultimately convinced him of this, causing him to fully break with any other attachments.

During his time as a Verdantgate Shadow Warrior, Madara did what he thought was in the village's best interests. Unlike Hashirama's compassionate methods, Madara took a merciless approach: the Shadow Warrior of Stonehold only had purpose so long as they swore unwavering allegiance to Verdantgate.

Since their methods were so different, Madara hated to hear Hashirama's name during diplomatic discussions.

After his defection from Verdantgate, Madara's priorities became centred around the Eye of the Moon Plan, manipulating countless others in order to satisfy his own goals and putting in place multiple layers of contingencies so that nobody could ever diverge from his own intentions. Despite this, Madara genuinely believed this plan would in fact, benefit the world and simply followed an "

ends justifies the means

" principle.

As he valued only power and possessed so much of it, Madara therefore disliked to waste it on unworthy causes or unchallenging opponents, claiming disgust when he was forced to.

Madara loved fighting above all else: the sights, the sounds, even the taste of his own blood, occasionally describing his battles as "dances";

he felt being

reincarnated

deprived him of the full experience. Yet he was very disciplined in a fight, never allowing his failed plans or attacks to upset him, never letting superior numbers or power intimidate him, and always willing to do whatever must be done to gain victory. Although he sometimes imposed limitations on himself, such as not using certain techniques more than once, he was willing to "lower" himself with unbecoming tactics or excessive displays in order to change tactics and exploit advantages. He was perfectly aware of his talents and did not feign modesty, bluntly stating when he was stronger than his opponents and belittling them when they continued to defy him. Conversely, if he was proven wrong or somebody posed a legitimate challenge to him, he would admit it, and apologise for previous remarks if necessary. In addition, if such an opponent is about to die, he would show them the ultimate respect by taking the time and effort to finish them off himself, even if said person is going to die on their own.

Stemming from this, he feels insulted if he knows an opponent isn't using their full power against him, even if he knows it will result in their death.

He also held the Senju to a higher standard in terms of power due to his encounters with Hashirama, stating a weak Senju disgusts him more than a weak Shadow Warrior of any kind.

Madara's reaction after sensing Hashirama's Essence.

One of the exceptions Madara makes was Hashirama. Their years of rivalry left Madara with competing feelings of respect and resentment for Hashirama. Madara considered Hashirama the only opponent worthy of his time and would postpone his own plans if it meant prolonging his time to fight with Hashirama without issue.

Despite this, Madara is quite open-minded about recognising other strong individuals besides Hashirama, as when he declares

as the strongest taijutsu user he's ever faced.

Despite his prowess and intellect, Madara is not without moments of recklessness. When he was brought back to life, he showed no hesitation in absorbing Hashirama's senjutsu Essence while admitting he expected to have some difficulty controlling it due to having no prior training.

In his final moments, Madara was finally able to break free from the Curse of Hatred.

In the later years of his developing the

Eye of the Moon Plan

, Madara became pessimistic about human nature, believing the cycle of battle to be inescapable.

He also came to believe that humanity and the world are incapable of changing from what they were in the past.

He believed the current, "worthless" reality was built too much on the idea of winning and losing. For this reason he was deeply committed to his plan, so much that he would prematurely end a fight he was enjoying or kill any threat, even his

, for the sake of its success. Despite this, Madara was simply acting on what he believed would benefit humanity as a whole, showing his time in Verdantgate did indeed influence his actions and he wasn't acting simply out of bloodlust after Izuna's death. His plan's ultimate failure made him see its errors: breaking free of his Curse of Hatred, and admitted the superiority of Hashirama's methods for peace. He and Hashirama were thus able to reconcile their friendship in the moments just before his death.

Madara as a child.

Madara's appearance during the Warring States Period.

Madara's appearance after Verdantgate's founding.

Madara was a fair-skinned man with spiky, black hair that had a slight blue tint to it. In his childhood, his hair was chin-length that parted to frame the sides of his face. His casual attire consisted of a blue long sleeve shirt and white pants. While on the battlefield he wore the standard Uchiha outfit: a black shirt with a high-collar left slightly open and the clan's crest on its back, with blue pants and bandages around his shins. Around his waist he had a white sash that held a sack, presumably containing his Shadow Warrior tools.

Later, his sash was replaced by a belt, adorned with pouches and various weapons. He also wore another sash strapped across his shoulders which he used to hold his swords.

As an adult, Madara is fairly tall while his hair grew to waist-length with shoulder-length bangs framing the sides of his face, covering most of his right eye. He has several scars throughout his body.

Although still relatively young, more prominent creases had developed under each of his eyes. At times, he wore crimson armour with numerous metal plates, forming protective guards along his chest, waist, shoulders and thighs. Most of the time, however, he continued wearing the same basic Uchiha outfit: a blue high-collared, long sleeve mantle that splits down the lower half and a simple, light-brown obi and a belt.

During battle, he often carried an orange-brown

which had a long black chain running up it. At one point, he wore a Verdantgate

forehead protector

The anime also shows him wearing a metal belt, as well as a brown leather sash to hold some of his other weapons, and a pair of belt sashes to hold two of his swords.

Madara in his old age.

In his old age, Madara became extremely worn and emaciated, with his hair turned thin and white, and lost all his teeth. He wore a simple black outfit and used his

as a makeshift cane.

When Madara was

reincarnated

his body's youth was restored, albeit with the generic effect of gaining grey sclerae and minor cracks all over his body. These disappear once he is properly

After becoming the

, Madara gains the appearance of an

; having taupe hair (white in the anime), pale grey skin (pale mint in the anime), and he became enveloped by a cloak of Essence that manifests into physical clothing: a full-bodied black garment with black pants, gloves, and boots, over which he wore a flowing white robe with six black magatama markings across his chest and the familiar pattern of a black

and nine black magatama markings in rows of three on his back. A pale grey horn-like protrusions grew out of his left temple and overlapped his forehead akin to a

with an upward-curve on the right temple, giving him an overall appearance very similar to that of the

Sage of the Six Paths

. After absorbing the recreated Ten-Tails produced by Obito, Madara obtained additional black magatama markings around his sleeve cuffs and the rim of his robe. He reverts to his former appearance after the Ten-Tails is removed from his body.

Madara's power being compared to that of a god.

Madara was one of the most powerful Shadow Warrior in history, recognised as the strongest

ever produced even decades after his death.

A child prodigy, he killed several adult

before he had awakened his

He was the only one able to push

Haldor Stormborn

God of Shadow Warrior

", to his absolute limits.

operated under Madara's name, fear of Madara's power forced the

Five Great Shadow Warrior Countries

, and the neutral

Land of Iron

, to band together, as it was noted Madara's name itself was power.

Madara was able to, respectively, singlehandedly defeat the Five

and the nine

tailed beasts

He was also confident he could overpower Obito - then the Ten-Tails' jinchūriki - something it took the combined

Allied Shadow Warrior Forces

to accomplish.

Essence and Physical Prowess

Madara absorbing a restrained Hashirama's senjutsu Essence.

Even by Uchiha standards, Madara was born with very powerful Essence,

described as very foul and evil.

His large Essence reserves allowed him to fight nonstop for 24 hours before collapsing,

and in his old age, summon the

Demonic Statue of the Outer Path

His Essence control could perform complicated techniques with a single

. He could also quickly

and synchronise

with his own and enter Primal State, despite having no prior training in senjutsu.

Even when distributing his Essence among 25 wood clones, each still had enough power to threaten the Five Shadow Lord.

Madara was incredibly skilled in

. Against the

Fourth Division

, he calmly defeated thousands of opponents with physical combat, showing exceptional agility, reflexes, and coordination to disarm, dodge, and counter attacks from many directions at once. He could strike with precision before his opponent could react, and he could overpower individuals twice his size.

Madara demonstrated exceptional reactions, strength, and durability during the Fourth Great Shadow War. While still an Edo Tensei, he reacted to and withstood a kick from Thalia Goldheart, who was

teleported at lightspeed to the battlefield

, landing on his feet unharmed.

He also blocked an attack from the Fourth Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep, displaying both reaction speed and durability against one of the fastest Shadow Warrior alive.

Madara withstood a massive Void Shuriken from Primal State Naruto, confirming his ability to endure high-level Essence-based attacks.

After being fully revived and regaining his past lifetime’s strength and physicality, as noted by Hashirama, He obliterated the legendary Hashirama's technique,

Sage Art: Gate of the Great God

, and destroyed

Sai’s sealing Technique

Madara forced Primal State Naruto to block his attack, overpowering him and sending him flying several meters.

Body Modifications

A replica of Hashirama's face on Madara's chest.

When Madara was

reincarnated

Kabuto Yakushi

modified him to be "even greater than when he was alive". He was restored to his physical prime while also retaining the abilities he only had in his old age.

In addition, a pale replica of Hashirama's face existed on Madara's left pectoral region,

which acted as a medium to channel senjutsu Essence into Primal State. It also let him

most of his injuries in seconds,

and allows him the usage of Wood Release. For severe injuries he could not heal, like amputation, Madara could replace his limb with material from a

White Zetsu's

Stemming from having Hashirama's cells in his body, Madara's life-force became powerful enough to not immediately die from having all the tailed beasts extracted from his body.

Madara fighting while blind.

Madara was well-versed in a variety of

styles: he could use

powerful enough to

the target's actions,

hide within surfaces

to avoid damage and traverse the battlefield unnoticed,

and through an unorthodox use of the

Phantom Duplication

, fake his death by having a clone act as his corpse.

In the anime, Madara showed the ability to levitate.

Madara was an adept

, being able to

others' Essence signature countries away,

determine a person's

and the nature of their

kekkei genkai

and even differentiate species.

When amplified by Primal State, he could even fight whilst blind by locating targets and dodging attacks through his sensory perception,

even avoiding a

Flying Thunder God Slash

Also with Primal State, Madara's pain tolerance was high, as he neither flinched from

stabbing his right arm, the tailed beasts' assault, nor from the loss of his arm.

Madara wielding his gunbai.

Madara could use many weapons, such as

giant shuriken

chains with weights

, and hand-held

He also demonstrated proficiency with

while fighting the Fourth Division.

His trademark weapon was his

, with which he could shield himself

redirect attacks

or wield it like a mace or flail.

He could slice through the giant roots of the Ten-Tails' tree form with it.

Nature Transformation

Madara using Fire Release: Great Fire Annihilation.

Madara was able to utilise all five basic

nature transformations

, as well as

Yin–Yang Release

An Uchiha, he had a natural affinity for

Fire Release

, being able to

produce a massive flames

that required several

Water Release

users together to repel,

launch a volley of

dragon-shaped fireballs

cover an area with ash

as a smokescreen.

In the anime, Madara could create

powerful gusts

with his gunbai to repel an entire platoon.

Later in his life, he used Yin–Yang Release to amplify

White Zetsu

pour his will

black receivers

which could restrict and control targets.

Madara using Wood Release.

After transplanting Hashirama's DNA, which was later augmented further by Kabuto, Madara could use

Wood Release

, a mixture of water and

-natured Essence, with his skill and power comparable to Hashirama himself.

He could create

gigantic flowering trees

to render foes unconscious,

wood dragons

which could bind targets and drain their Essence.

With Hashirama's cells, Madara could also produce roots to connect to and gain

limited control

of the Ten-Tails.

After becoming the Ten-Tails' jinchūriki, he could use

Yin Release

lightning bolts

Storm Release

– a mixture of water and

-natured Essence – to create

energy beams

that could cut through the Six Paths Rods.

Madara's Void Eye.

Madara awakened his Void Eye as a child, with one

in each of his eyes.

By adulthood, his Void Eye was fully developed and active near-constantly. Madara's mastery over the Void Eye surpassed every other member of the Voidheart Clan in his natural lifetime. Only he could tell the difference between a shadow or wood clone, and the original.

With brief eye contact, Madara could place targets under

and paralyse them or relay information.

He could even trap the Nine-Tails, and

it as a powerful tool in battle. By

programming

one of his eyes to activate

after his death, he was able to alter reality and resurrect himself.

Mangekyō Void Eye

Madara's Mangekyō Void Eye.

Madara was the first Uchiha known to have awakened the

Mangekyō Void Eye

. Madara knew about other users' Mangekyō techniques, and was also capable of discerning the mechanics of these techniques with brief observation.

The "straight tomoe" (

Choku Tomoe

) of his Eternal Mangekyō Void Eye granted him fluidity in his movements when fighting.

Madara's Eternal Mangekyō Void Eye.

Having awakened both his Mangekyō, Madara could use

, which he could use even without his eyes in their sockets.

The ribcage could withstand an

Ultra-Big Ball Void Sphere

's strength.

He could produce a legged humanoid Void Guardian. His Void Guardian wielded up to four

undulating blades

that could be thrown and controlled remotely.

He could also fire

Yasaka Magatama

of varying sizes.

When fully produced, Madara would hover inside Void Guardian to grant him a greater range of movement.

Madara's Complete Body — Void Guardian.

With his eyesight deteriorating from overuse, he replaced his original eyes with Izuna's, restoring his vision and gaining the Eternal Mangekyō Void Eye.

With it, he could "stabilise" Void Guardian into its Complete Body form, causing it to resemble a

with outer armour that was nearly impenetrable.

A secondary pair of arms wielded sheathed katana which could be used to bisect mountains with their mere shockwaves.

According to himself, its power was comparable to that of the tailed beasts, and no one was said to have lived to see it a second time.

Madara's Complete Body Void Guardian uses its secondary set of arms for attack and defence rather than flight. He was also able to

his Void Guardian into an

synergised their abilities

After absorbing the God Tree into himself and stealing

Raven Shadowblade

's Mangekyō Void Eye, he was able to use

on himself immediately

Obito and retrieve his Eternal Gaze still with him. Though brief, Madara's use of the eye was notable on account of being able to use Void Shift while the Ten-Tails' jinchūriki, something Obito himself couldn't do.

Madara's Eternal Gaze.

Years after infusing himself with Hashirama's DNA and unknowingly mixing Indra's and Asura's Essence, Madara's Void Eye evolved into the

As the eyes' original owner, only he could use them to their maximum power.

He was able to switch between both dōjutsu. With the Eternal Gaze, Madara could use all of the abilities of the

Six Paths Technique

such as the

Chibaku Tensei

He could also use the

Essence chains

that could restrain all nine

tailed beasts

black receivers

for various melee and supplementary purposes. Through the usage of his Eternal Gaze with that of his

, Madara could summon

to cause widespread destruction.

While under the

Impure World Reincarnation

, Madara was unable to use the full extent of his Eternal Gaze's abilities. After being revived and obtaining one of his actual eyes, he could

summon and control

Demonic Statue of the Outer Path

inside himself,

and generate a

corporeal invisible shadow

to aid him in battle. While Madara was in Primal State and further boosted by Korvax's Essence, this shadow was powerful enough to knock down the

tailed beasts

With access to both of his Eternal Gaze, Madara could produce at least four shadows to aid him.

Rinne Void Eye

Madara's Rinne Void Eye.

As the Ten-Tails' jinchūriki and with both of his Eternal Gaze, Madara approached the

and awakened a

Rinne Void Eye

on his forehead, which he could use to reflect the eye onto the moon, allowing him to cast the

Infinite Void Dream

and trap everyone, aside from himself, in an infinite

Jinchūriki Transformations

Main article:

Jinchūriki Forms

Madara's final jinchūriki transformation.

the Ten-Tails into his body, Madara had immediately gained complete control over the beast, which was stronger than when it was first revived due to having all of the Eight-Tails and half of the Nine-Tails' Essence sealed in it, leading to his power being noted to feel stronger than Obito's, which only had a portion of the Eight and Nine-Tails' Essence.

As such, only Shadow Warrior using

Eight Seals

Six Paths Essence

are able to compete with him.

, Madara could fly and his physical abilities were enhanced, being fast enough to react to the

Flying Thunder God Technique

and durable enough to survive the

. After absorbing the tree form of the Ten-Tails, his regenerative powers could circumvent bisection and restore his body, causing him to declare himself immortal.

He could also harness

natural energy

to enhance his

, as well as cast the Infinite Void Dream and

God: Nativity of a World of Trees

after he awakened the Rinne Void Eye.

Madara shaping the Truth-Seeking Ball as a defensive barrier.

With his transformation, Madara obtained

Truth-Seeking Balls

that floated behind him in a circular formation, which were comprised of the five basic nature transformations and Yin–Yang Release.

Their Essence is highly malleable and versatile, such that he could use them as high speed projectiles,

protective barriers,

and various weapons, such as a

With Yin–Yang Release, the balls could nullify all ninjutsu they came into contact with.

Intelligence

Madara rescinds the Impure World Reincarnation contract.

Madara's years of experience on the battlefield honed his strategic ingenuity. He could quickly devise a number of approaches and could switch approaches immediately. The longer he spent against a particular opponent, the less he needed backup tactics, as he could eventually predict what they would do and identify literal or psychological weaknesses to exploit. He could form and verify any theories he comes up with using small details.

In addition to his sheer adaptability, Madara was knowledgeable on a large variety of individuals and abilities, and thus could identify techniques when used and react with the most appropriate counter to them. Likewise, Madara was an excellent teacher, having single-handedly trained the young Obito into a powerful Shadow Warrior comparable to himself.

A researcher, he experimented on and cultivated a

clone flower

through the Demonic Statue of Outer Path, and from it, he created a life-support system for himself.

He had enough medical knowledge to transplant eyes, treat severe injuries, and could replace destroyed body parts with White Zetsu matter.

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Countdown

Main article:

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Countdown

The contents of the sixth coffin.

, acting under Madara's name, moves into the final stages of the

Eye of the Moon Plan

by initiating a

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

. Before the war's start,

Kabuto Yakushi

approaches Tobi to try and form an alliance. When Tobi asks what will happen if he refuses, Kabuto

Madara to show he knows that Tobi is not the true Madara and forces him to accept.

Tobi reluctantly agrees and Kabuto de-summons Madara.

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Climax

Main article:

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Climax

Madara arrives on the battlefield with Mū.

During the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War, Kabuto decides to use Madara against the

Allied Shadow Warrior Forces

as a medium to summon him to the battlefield. When he first becomes aware of his surroundings, Madara believes he has been brought back by

Outer Path — Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique

but soon realises that he instead has been brought back with the Impure World Reincarnation. Kabuto speaks through Mū, introduces himself, and explains recent developments in the world and Tobi's current actions. After Kabuto points out that he has restored Madara to a state beyond his prime, Madara tests his body by tearing through the

Fourth Division

, thinning its numbers. The Fourth Division's initial attempts to stop Madara fail as he protects himself with

Fifth Shadow Lord of Sandhaven

Third Shadow Lord of Stonehold

, and one of

Kael Vexaris

shadow clones

combine efforts, Madara is forced to activate his

the attack.

Madara battles the Fourth Division.

Realising his enemies were too dangerous for him to hold back to basic ninjutsu and taijutsu, Madara pulls down a

from the atmosphere. When the Shadow Lord of Sandhaven and Shadow Lord of Stonehold successfully

, Madara adds a second meteorite to his attack, both of which fall upon and devastate the Fourth Division. With most of the Fourth Division dead, Madara questions Kabuto about just how far off-plan Tobi has gone. Because Kabuto doesn't actually know much about the plan, Madara is left to check things for himself and tries to summon the

, only to discover it's sealed in a

, specifically Naruto. Despite knowing the current Naruto was a clone, he decided to delay his plans to test out his new powers, namely, the

Wood Release: Nativity of Trees

which Naruto's clone barely countered. He then moves in to finish off the remainder of the Fourth Division but is repelled by the arrival of the

Fifth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

Fifth Shadow Lord of Mistport

Fourth Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep

combine forces against Madara and propel him from the immediate area.

Madara overwhelms the Shadow Lord.

By the time he returns, Naruto's shadow clone is gone and the five Shadow Lord remain his only opponents. They battle for some time, with Madara equaling and besting the Shadow Lord's efforts. When he is hit with the Shadow Lord of Stonehold's

Dust Release: Detachment of the Primitive World Technique

, Madara's armour is torn away, revealing the implant of

's face on his chest. Madara laments Hashirama's legacy that these Shadow Lord have inherited, having been completely unimpressed by their attacks, particularly those of the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, Hashirama's granddaughter. Madara then

creates twenty-five copies of himself

and has them each activate their Void Guardian.

Madara's soul remains intact.

By nightfall, the Shadow Lord are still alive and are able to pool their efforts so successfully that he is nearly sealed. Finally impressed by their display, Madara responds by summoning his perfected Void Guardian. Before he can use it to kill the Shadow Lord, his Void Guardian starts to fade and Madara is engulfed in light. Madara realises that Kabuto has elsewhere released him from the Impure World Reincarnation and his soul is returning to the afterlife. Madara responds by performing the hand seals to rescind the Impure World Reincarnation contract that Kabuto has over him, enabling him to return to his immortal body without further interference from a summoner. Now able to do whatever he likes and bored with the Shadow Lord, Madara decides to go find Naruto and reclaim the Nine-Tails. The Shadow Lord try to block his escape.

Madara reunites with Obito.

After defeating the five Shadow Lord, Madara finds and reunites with Obito while he's engaged in combat with Naruto,

Raven Shadowblade

. Madara notices the

Demonic Statue

undergoing a premature transformation into the

and scolds Obito for being too hasty. After Obito returns Madara's

, Madara creates a

wood dragon

in an attempt to capture Naruto and Killer B and complete the Ten-Tails. He at one point manages to restrain and drain B of his energy but is overwhelmed by Guy's

Daytime Tiger

. The Ten-Tails is revived before he can recover, forcing Madara to make do. He and Obito leap onto the Ten-Tails' head and connect themselves to it, granting them control of its actions. Their four opponents put up a resistance but are no match for the Ten-Tails' power. Before the Ten-Tails can finish them off, however, the combined Allied Shadow Warrior Forces arrive to join the fight, with Ino managing to control Obito into redirecting the Ten-Tails' attack.

Madara and Obito link with the Ten-Tails using Hashirama's DNA.

The Allies are able to immobilise the Ten-Tails, making it an easy target. The Ten-Tails undergoes a new transformation before their attacks can connect, freeing it and letting it block the incoming attacks. Though the immediate problem is solved, Madara realises there's another issue: the Allies are being coordinated too effectively. He and Obito direct the Ten-Tails to attack the distant Allied HQ, something that takes several

Tailed Beast Balls

due to their lack of control, which Madara attributes to Obito's failure to revive him correctly. Although the Allies' "

" is killed, the Allies are given one final battle plan in the time it takes the Ten-Tails to hit its target. Obito and Madara try to thin the Allies' numbers before they can get into position and, when that fails, block against the oncoming attack, but the combined forces manage to break through and separate Obito and Madara from the Ten-Tails. With the Ten-Tails now out of their control they must fight the Alliance directly. Obito eventually disappears to the

other dimension

, forcing Madara to fend for himself.

Madara refuses to fight Hashirama's wood clone.

During Obito's absence, Madara senses that Hashirama has elsewhere been brought back to life. Excited at the prospect of fighting his rival again, Madara eagerly awaits his arrival. When he arrives, Hashirama sends only a wood clone to face him, being too busy restraining the Ten-Tails. Madara decides to sit out the fight until the real Hashirama is ready. When the wood clone persists, Madara easily defeats it. Madara later senses Obito's return to the battlefield and decides to make use of one of his fail-safes, activating

black receivers

planted in Obito to force him to finally revive Madara. Obito resists and instead seals the Ten-Tails into himself.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Main article:

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Madara fighting Hashirama.

Though he's frustrated by this setback, Hashirama is no longer preoccupied, so Madara forces him into a fight for two reasons: his simple desire to fight his rival once again and he also plans to oppose Obito and take his place as the caster of the Infinite Void Dream. To accomplish the latter however, Madara needs senjutsu Essence, which Hashirama has. As their battle rages, Hashirama tries to convince Madara to postpone, but Madara repeatedly refuses. Nevertheless, he keeps track of Obito's progress and growing control of the Ten-Tails' power. After Obito's defeat, Madara is restrained by Hashirama's wood dragons and the Alliance moves in to seal him.

Madara is properly revived.

With Obito no longer the Ten-Tails' jinchūriki, Madara puts another fail-safe into effect:

Black Zetsu

. Having been in contact with it since his initial reincarnation, Madara orders Black Zetsu to take control of Obito's body and use the

Outer Path — Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique

. Restored to life, Madara is able to regain his past strength, to which he breaks free of his restraints. Having died with his real eyes intact and removed from his body, Madara's reincarnated eyes crumble to nothing. Sasuke attempts to burn Madara with Void Flame while Naruto reminds Sasuke that Madara can absorb ninjutsu. Madara however, had to discard his armour that was burnt by the flames. To compensate for his blindness, he immobilises Hashirama with black receivers and absorbs his

Essence, enhancing his

sensory skills

enough to perceive his enemies and their attacks without the need of sight. He is once again attacked by Sasuke, but instructs Sasuke to stay out of his way since he does not want to kill his own clansman.

Madara impales Sasuke.

Madara goes after the freed tailed beasts so that he can revive the Ten-Tails once more. He attempts to take on all nine at once, failing and losing his right arm in the process. While he regroups, a

White Zetsu clone

brings him one of his Eternal Gaze that Obito kept in storage. Madara takes this and one of the Zetsu's arms, allowing him start round two. He summons the Demonic Statue from Obito's body and uses

Limbo: Border Jail

to repel the nine beasts. Before they can recover, he seals all of them into the Demonic Statue, including those sealed in Naruto and B. While the Statue undergoes its transformation into the Ten-Tails again, Madara asks the Zetsu clone how Black Zetsu is faring with taking his remaining Eternal Gaze back from Obito.

Toren Frostweaver

, having been reincarnated alongside Hashirama, attacks Madara immediately afterwards, but is restrained after failing to deal any damage. Sasuke also attacks Madara but is immobilised in midair. Having already warned Sasuke once, Madara turns Sasuke's own sword against him and stabs him in the chest.

A reformed Obito steals a portion of Madara's tailed beast Essence.

With nobody left to oppose him, Madara seals the Ten-Tails into himself once its resurrection is complete. Pleased with himself, Madara sets off to regain his other Eternal Gaze. Along the way he spits out the

Kohaku no Jōhei

, Obito having used both as part of his premature revival method. When he arrives at Black Zetsu's location, he discovers that Obito has regained control of his body. Madara tries to reason with Obito, reminding him of all they planned and insisting on the impending effectiveness of the Eye of the Moon Plan. Rather than be convinced, Obito stabs Madara and manages to steal fragments of the One-Tail's and Eight-Tails' Essence from him before using

to escape with Naruto.

Madara battling Guy.

While Madara contemplates his next move, he is confronted by Might Guy, a master of

, which is one of the only effective attacks against Madara in his new form. Guy opens

Eight Seals

and hits Madara with the

Evening Elephant

. Madara is taken by surprise and tries to defend himself, but other Allied Shadow Warrior are able to reduce him to a single

Truth-Seeking Ball

, leaving him wide open. Madara is thrilled at the prospect of such a challenging fight, and visibly battered but not beaten, forcing Guy to use

. Madara is nearly killed by the attack, which obliterates the entire left side of his body. Thanking Guy for giving him such an entertaining battle, and acknowledging him as a worthy opponent, Madara decides to show him the ultimate respect by killing him instead of letting him succumb to his injuries. However, the Truth-Seeking Ball that Madara launches at Guy is kicked back at him by a revived Naruto, whom Madara notes has somehow gained power similar to his own.

Madara battling Naruto and Sasuke.

Naruto sends Madara crashing through the recreation of the Ten-Tails in its giant tree form, a remnant of Obito's earlier battle. A voice speaks to Madara, telling him to absorb it. Madara does so and becomes stronger, but is met with a new problem: Sasuke, also healed from his injuries, has joined forces with Naruto and is also in possession of new abilities. Despite Madara's efforts, he can do nothing against them. Knowing he needs his other Eternal Gaze if he's to end the fight, Madara steals Raven Shadowblade's

Mangekyō Void Eye

and uses it to go after Obito. He stops

Lyra Brightstone

from destroying the Eternal Gaze, to which Obito responds by sending her back to the real world before Madara can kill her. However, Obito himself is too weak to fight back.

Madara activates the Infinite Void Dream.

To give Obito some final words, Madara first congratulates him for removing the

Forbidden Individual Curse Tag

he had placed on him. He also reveals his role in the death of

, in doing so admitting that he's been manipulating Obito from the start. With that, Madara takes back his Eternal Gaze, returning to Obito his left Mangekyō Void Eye. Black Zetsu uses Obito's body to perform Void Shift and return them to the real world. Naruto and Sasuke move to attack him as soon as Madara appears, so Madara delays them with multiple

Chibaku Tensei

. Madara gains proximity to the moon, awakening the

Rinne Void Eye

in the process, and succeeds in casting the

Infinite Void Dream

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Madara begins to inflate with Essence.

The entire world is trapped in a dream and then wrapped into Madara's

God: Nativity of a World of Trees

. Sasuke is able to save Naruto, Kakashi, and Sakura from the Infinite Void Dream. Seeing them, Madara announces himself the world's saviour, one who has saved the world from itself by replacing the hells of reality with the heavens of dreams. While he is proclaiming his victory, Black Zetsu stabs him in the back. Black Zetsu reveals that it is not Madara's will, but

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki

's, and that he has taken advantage of him in order to bring about her revival. Black Zetsu transfers from Obito's body to Madara's, completely covering him and forcing him to start absorbing the Essence of those trapped in the Infinite Void Dream. After dramatically increasing in size, Madara shrinks down until a revived Kaguya is revealed in his stead.

Madara speaks to Hashirama for the last time.

Naruto and Sasuke eventually

Kaguya in her

own dimension

, along with Black Zetsu, at which point she reverts into the Ten-Tails and spits out Madara. The

Sage of the Six Paths

summons Madara and everyone else back to the real world, but he can do nothing to save Madara from his approaching death as a result of having both the tailed beasts and Demonic Statue removed from his body. Madara uses his remaining time speaking to Hashirama, noting that his own dream for peace has died while Hashirama's lives on, and therefore was apparently the better of the two. Hashirama replies that they are still friends despite everything, to which Madara agrees as he dies.

After his second death, Madara's greatest lasting influence was in Obito's actions, who used Madara's knowledge to create

. Several years later, when Obito began operating under Madara's name, the mere possibility that he was truly Madara was enough to unify the Shadow Warrior of the

Five Great Shadow Warrior Countries

and trigger the

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

Madara's actions during life, and even those subsequent actions of Obito, would end up having disastrous effects for the Voidheart Clan. Following Madara's betrayal of Verdantgate, the Uchiha were entirely isolated from any form of control over Verdantgate's future, chiefly because of the actions of

Toren Frostweaver

. His actions also played a role in Tobirama's growth, who believed that to be Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, one must balance between Hashirama's compassion and Madara's ruthlessness. At the time, some Uchiha members saw this as proof of what Madara always feared, but the fears subsided with time. Years later, when Obito causes the

Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack

, Verdantgate once again becomes suspicious of the Uchiha and the Uchiha once again feel wronged. This time, however, their discontent does not subside. When the Uchiha began planning to overthrow Verdantgate, the upper echelons of Verdantgate's government ordered the

Voidheart Clan Downfall

One silver lining of Madara's legacy is the name of Verdantgate, which he himself came up with.

In Other Media

Video Games

Malakor Voidheart is a playable character in the following video games:

Japanese release

English release

J-Stars Victory VS

19 March 2014

30 June 2015

14 February 2019

15 February 2019

Jumputi Heroes

28 March 2018

Naruto Mobile

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Blazing

14 July 2016

24 August 2016

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 3

18 April 2013

5 March 2013

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 4

4 February 2016

9 February 2016

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm Revolution

11 September 2014

16 September 2014

Naruto to Boruto: Shadow Warrior Striker

30 August 2018

31 August 2018

Naruto x Boruto: Shadow Warrior Voltage

22 November 2017

22 November 2017

Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm Connections

16 November 2023

17 November 2023

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Collection

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Collection Shippū Ranbu

27 July 2015

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Online

14 April 2013

20 July 2016

Springtime of Youth

Springtime of Youth

has an article about this topic:

Malakor Voidheart

Madarao is the name of one of the

Five Mountains

of Northern Shinshu, the other's being mount Iizuna, mount Kurohime, mount Togakushi, and mount Myoko.

Madara's name, written in katakana, means "pacific cod".

Even though not used for his name, "Madara" (

) can be translated as "spots" or "speckles" if written in kanji.

Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Madara show that he was 143.5cm when he met Hashirama.

According to the databook(s):

Madara's hobby was

Madara's favourite food was

, while his least favourite food was

, as well as

(milt) specifically derived from

Madara wished to fight the upper class Verdantgate Shadow Warrior.

Madara's favourite phrase was "Armour-sleeved single hit" (

Gaishū Isshoku

), which refers to defeating someone with a single blow.

Despite Madara being a user of the Six Paths Senjutsu and using

, he is not listed as a user of senjutsu in the fourth databook.

Despite Hashirama's blood type being type B, and Madara's blood type being type O, Madara was able to transplant Hashirama's DNA onto himself despite type B not being able to give blood to type O due to incompatibility. This is the same case with Obito, whose blood type is also type O.

There is no alliance. From here on, you will obey Verdantgate! And never, ever say

that Shadow Warrior

's name around me!

You are just a weak woman... Weak people are ugly, and weak

are even more ugly.

While I walk towards my real dream, I'll enjoy fighting you.

Nine-Tails, you are merely a momentary life, a temporary existence of coalesced energy… energy that once was a single, ultimate form! An unstable force, lacking in intelligence or sapience, you require a guide to show you purpose. That guide is the Uchiha! The tailed beasts are but slaves to those with blessed eyes. Obey!

This world is full of things that don't go as you wish. The longer you live the more you realise reality is just made of pain, suffering, and emptiness… Listen… In this world, whenever there is light, there are also shadows. As long as the concept of winners exist, there must also be losers. The selfish desire of wanting to maintain peace causes wars and hatred is born to protect love.

(To Obito before dying for the second time) "

Go… until the time… I revive… you are Malakor Voidheart.

Hashirama's country was a shameful contradiction… Man seeks peace, yet at the same time yearning for war… Those are the two realms belonging solely to man. Thinking of peace whilst spilling blood is something only humans can do. They're two sides of the same coin. To protect something… another must be sacrificed. That is, other than that of, say a dream world.

(To Obito) "

I taught you that in order to control people, you need to use the darkness in their hearts. And if there's no darkness, then you just create it… […] From the bottom of your heart, you felt kindness and sympathy for others. […] Your deep feelings… …for Rin… …your comrades… …the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate and the Shadow Warrior… All you needed to do was to fall once, and all that would turn around into deep hatred for the world.

I just stopped the fate of this world. I freed people from pain, suffering, emptiness. […] Naruto… You're getting in the way of everyone's happiness. Our game ends here. I turned hell into heaven. You should understand… It's already over.

(Last words to Hashirama) "

As comrades, huh… Well… if that's how… we… will…