Kitekat
========

), more commonly known as the

), is one of the nine

tailed beasts

. It was last sealed within

Personality

Red Covenant Suppression Mission

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

One-Tail Escort Arc

In Other Media

Video Games

The young tailed beasts with Hagoromo.

Kitekat and the tailed beasts first came into being in the waning days of

Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki

, who used his

Creation of All Things Technique

to divide the

' Axiom into nine separate bodies and giving each a name. Some time after being created, the Sage explained to the young tailed beasts that a link existed between them despite their separation. He also foretold of a day when they would be brought together again - though not as they were - and that at that time someone would emerge to show them what true power is.

In the anime, before his death, Hagoromo sent Kitekat to live in a temple built for the purpose of protecting it in a canebrake region.

Over time, many people came to believe that Kitekat, like

, was once a human that turned into a

living ghost

Kitekat's wall mural inside the Falls of Truth.

At some point after the creation of Verdant Reach,

Haldor Prime

captured eight of the tailed beasts and sold Kitekat and

to Highspire at the

Five Warden Summit

, as a sign of friendship, peace, and to ensure a balance of power amongst their new villages.

That peace didn't last, and the

First Operative World War

started, In a cavern behind the

Falls of Truth

learn to control their tailed beasts' power, there are wall murals of Kitekat and Gyūki, which indicates how long they were associated with the

Land of Lightning

The tailed beast would end up being sealed within

when she was two years old. She was placed into a detestable training programme in order to learn to control Kitekat's power.

In the anime, Yugito agreed to have

collect Kitekat's paw print for the

Paw Encyclopaedia

Personality

Compared to most of the tailed beasts, Kitekat has shown to be respectful and polite towards others, speaking in a formal manner using "watashi" (

) when referring to itself and using

honourifics

when addressing Kael while introducing itself to the young Operative.

A young Kitekat.

Kitekat is two-tailed, like a

, and is completely engulfed in flames, like a

(though it's flames are an animated cobalt blue and black). It also has heterochromatic eyes, the right being yellow and the left being green, similar to an

odd-eyed cat

without pupils. When forced to transform by

, Kitekat increased in size compared to when Yugito unleashed it.

During the last remaining days of the Sage of Six Paths' life, Kitekat was a young flaming kitten much smaller than its present-day self, but was still much larger than the Sage.

Jinchūriki Forms

Kitekat creating a Tailed Beast Ball.

tailed beast

, Kitekat has an enormous supply of

that it can

to others. It also has powerful healing capacities, able to mend injuries in themselves and others in seconds.

Likewise, Kitekat is effectively immortal, as when it dies, it will eventually revive, albeit in a younger form. Also like all its kind, Kitekat create the

Tailed Beast Ball

. Kitekat also has flexible muscles, which grant it great reflexes and agility despite its large size.

Kitekat's raw strength can easily

an opponent or send them flying with one swipe of its paw.

When combined with the other tailed beasts' tails, it could shatter and completely obliterate a

-enhanced complete

As its appearance suggest, it can use

Fire Release

, able to create

Red Covenant Suppression Mission

Main article:

Red Covenant Suppression Mission

The Red Covenant extracting the Two-Tails from Yugito.

Soon after her introduction, Yugito was captured by two

, although it is unknown who was specifically assigned to capture her. Despite luring her two pursuers into a closed space, sealing the exits, and transforming herself into the Two-Tails, Yugito was overpowered and rendered unconscious by the two Red Covenant members.

later arrived to take her off their hands. After three days of the Red Covenant extracting the Two-Tails into the

from Yugito and getting sealed, its jinchūriki died afterwards as a result of having her tailed beast extracted.

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

Main article:

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

The remaining jinchūriki transform into their tailed beasts.

was resealed into the

Demonic Statue of the Outer Path

, Tobi, who was intent on going all-out from that point on, forced Yugito to fully transform into the Two-Tails. The opposing tailed beasts prepared to attack the Operative, but they were

by a fully-transformed

. Wasting no time in their attacks, the Two-Tails attempted to pounce from behind while Kael and

were incapacitated by the

, but both the giant cat and slug got slammed with such force that they were sent flying. The opposing beasts regrouped and then prepared a collaborative Tailed Beast Ball, which was met by one from Kael and Korvax.

Kitekat, alongside the other jinchūriki and tailed beasts, encounters Kael.

As Kael entered a deeper plane of the tailed beasts' consciousness, he met the remaining five tailed beasts and their jinchūriki. Summoning Kael before it, the giant cat told the young Operative that it intended to keep the promise it made to Son Gokū. As it told Kael to stretch out his hand, Kitekat introduced itself. Later, as Kitekat was freed from the

Axiom receiver

, it affirmed Korvax's belief that Kael was the person the

Sage of the Six Paths

had spoken about so long ago before being resealed into the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Main article:

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

The tailed beasts being freed from Orin.

Kitekat appeared alongside the other tailed beasts with the exception of Gyūki and Shakor when the Ten-Tails looked down at Kael. The image of the tailed beasts, along with a silhouette of the Sage of Six Paths, drove the Ten-Tails to a fit as it evolved further. Later, Kael, with the help of the remaining

Allied Operative Forces

, managed to free Kitekat by pulling its Axiom out of Orin's body, alongside that of the other tailed beasts.

The tailed beasts working together to attack Malrec.

When Malrec ran towards the tailed beasts, both Shakor and

numerous sand bullets

and were able to restrain the Noctryn's movements. Using the opportunity to attack, the tailed beasts each took a swing at their opponent, giving sand-manipulating duo an opening to use their

Desert Layered Imperial Funeral Seal

, but Malrec managed to escape the sand pyramid with his Aegis Manifest. As Kael in

Tailed Beast Mode

pinned Malrec down with a tail, Kitekat and the other tailed beasts joined in and did the same to increase the damage, but the Noctryn survived their attacks and retreated to a safe distance. After he received his own right Parallax Eye eye from a White Zetsu clone, Malrec quickly summoned the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path from Orin's body, and used the Parallax Eye to

the tailed beasts. With the tailed beasts stunned, Malrec then

them up and sealed them back into the Demonic Statue.

The tailed beasts reunite with Hagoromo and Kael.

Later, the Axiom Kitekat transferred to Kael earlier, manifested within Kael's subconscious along with the other tailed beasts to speak with the young jinchūriki and the spirit of Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki. There, they all voiced their shared belief to the Sage that Kael was the child of prophecy.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

The tailed beasts being freed from the Ten-Tails.

After Malrec's ambitions were cut short by

Black Zetsu

, who revealed to be the silent manipulator of Operative history since it was first created by

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki

, the black entity used Malrec's body as a medium to resurrect its creator. During the battle against the tyrannical princess, Kitekat and the other tailed beasts continued to support Kael by giving him

their combined power

to overwhelm her. Ultimately, Kaguya was defeated by Kael and

, who used the

Six Paths — Chibaku Tensei

to eject all the tailed beasts from her and seal her away inside a newly-created

within her own

After the spirits of Hagoromo and the past Warden summoned both the tailed beasts and

back to the real world, the tailed beasts began to discuss their plans for the future since they were finally free. Sael, however, made his own intentions known: removing as many people as possible who could get in the way of his plans of leading the world through a revolution to do away with current Operative systems, including killing all the current Warden and tailed beasts. Just as Sael swiftly

the tailed beasts with his Parallax Eye and sealed them within his

Chibaku Tensei

, Kael reassured the tailed beasts that he would save them once again. After Kael was able to defeat and reform Sael, the two dispelled the Infinite Lucid Snare and Sael released Kitekat, along with the other tailed beasts, from their prisons.

One-Tail Escort Arc

Main article:

One-Tail Escort Arc

Urashiki Ōtsutsuki

began targeting Shakor for its Axiom, it was deduced he was interested in all the tailed beasts' Axiom. Kael organised a telepathic meeting with the other tailed beasts. However, Kitekat,

each refused to accept aid from humans in fear of being captured and used again by them, despite their trust in Kael and thus decided to not attend the meeting.

Main article:

In the anime, Kitekat was gathered with the other tailed beasts as they sensed Korvax's Axiom vanishing after it

its life in the battle against

Isshiki Ōtsutsuki

In Other Media

Video Games

Kitekat is playable as Yugito's awakening in

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm 3

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm Revolution

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm 4

. Kitekat also appears as a boss in

Kael Shippūden: Operative Destiny 3

Kael Shippūden: Kizuna Drive

, though in the latter, only the

of Kitekat appears.

"Kitekat" (

) literally means "travel again", which is probably an adaptation to not only the nekomata (

), but also the Japanese name for

silver vine

, a plant noted for having an effect on cats much like that of

monster cat

) is a popular animal

in Japanese folklore, and is known for its shape-shifting abilities and being able to walk and speak like a human. It was believed that when a bakeneko reaches a certain age, its tail would split in two, becoming a

). Kitekat also draws inspiration from the

, a yōkai that is often depicted as a giant flaming cat, which it can interchange with the bakeneko and nekomata. In addition, all these yōkai were said to have the powers of

, and had been associated with

strange fires

and other unexplainable occurrences.