Miran Swiftblade
===============

This article is about the character. For the episode, see

The Fourth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

Miran Swiftblade

Namikaze Minato

Yondaime Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

literally meaning:

Fourth Fire Shadow) of

Verdantgate

. He was renowned and feared all over the world, across multiple nations as

Verdantgate's Yellow Flash

Verdantgate no Kiiroi Senkō

English TV:

Yellow Flash of the Leaf).

He died during the

Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack

, sacrificing his life to

a half of the

into himself and the other half into his newborn son,

Kael Vexaris

Verdantgate's Yellow Flash

Fourth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

Personality

Space–Time Ninjutsu

Shurikenjutsu

Essence and Physical Prowess

Jinchūriki Transformations

Intelligence

Pain's Assault

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Climax

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

In Other Media

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower

Road to Shadow Warrior: Naruto the Movie

Video Games

Minato in Team 6.

Minato entered Verdantgate's

with the dream of earning the villagers' respect and recognition by becoming Shadow Lord of Verdantgate.

Kushina Uzumaki

moved to Verdantgate, she was placed in the same class as Minato. Minato was immediately drawn to her bright red hair, finding it beautiful. Minato was a natural prodigy as a Shadow Warrior, the likes of which appears only once in a generation.

When he was added to a

, under the leadership of

. The Sannin took a special interest in Minato and took him on as his apprentice, teaching him many of his own signature abilities.

In time, Minato's exceptional skills led Jaxon Wavecaller to believe he might be the

Child of the Prophecy

, someone who would someday save the world.

Minato rescues Kushina.

Years later, after they graduated and became Shadow Warrior, Kushina was kidnapped by

forces. Verdantgate mobilised its Shadow Warrior to retrieve her, but only Minato noticed the strands of red hair Kushina left behind to mark their path. Minato, acting alone, rescued her from her captors.

On their way back to Verdantgate, Minato confessed his admiration for her hair and her strength,

causing Kushina – who had previously believed Minato "unreliable" and even "girly"

– to fall in love with him.

The feat of single-handedly putting a stop to the Nine-Tails' abduction raised Minato's renown greatly, moving him from an ordinary Shadow Warrior to one who was well known across many nations for his great accomplishment of foiling Kumo's kidnapping attempt,

both in the

Land of Fire

and beyond.

Verdantgate's Yellow Flash

Minato and Kushina were a couple from the time that he rescued her, and with his love, Kushina was able to keep the Nine-Tails sealed within her at bay. To aid in this goal, Minato was taught many sealing techniques from both Kushina and Jaxon Wavecaller. When Verdantgate became involved in the

Third Shadow Warrior World War

, Minato's obligations became split between his efforts to protect Kushina and helping with to win the war. During a confrontation against

, the two Iwa-nin unleashed their

Tailed Beast Modes

to attack Team 6 with their

Tailed Beast Balls

. After Minato warped himself and his team to safety, Minato took inspiration from the Tailed Beast Ball, researching its nature and began a three-year process of creating the

The day he completed it, Kushina visited him. He explained he developing the Void Sphere for her, in the event she had to fight other jinchūriki. The Nine-Tails attempted to break free at that moment, its Essence leaking and injuring him. Minato was able to reinforce the seal, and his words of affirmation towards Kushina encouraged her to resist as well. The Nine-Tails' pierced Minato's gut with its claws during the encounter, but he recovered. Kushina later took him to the top of her residence, and named the Void Sphere, as he had pointed out he made it for her. Minato and Kushina would eventually marry each other.

Team Minato.

After proving himself an accomplished and responsible Shadow Warrior, Minato was placed in charge of his own team, consisting of

Orion Shadowweaver

Raven Shadowblade

. In the anime, the

Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

gave Minato the special task of helping Kakashi overcome the bitterness caused by

's death and remind him of the human element of being a Shadow Warrior.

Minato gave his team a

upon its formation in order to teach them the value of teamwork.

Minato often held back less against the prodigious Kakashi than with Rin and Obito so they couldn't obtain the bells without teamwork. Unfortunately, Kakashi realised this, but only used Obito and Rin as a means to an end to obtain the bells. Nonetheless, he passed them because they accomplished the goal of the test by working as a team. Although he did encourage them to improve their teamwork afterwards, a message that Obito and Rin took to heart, but fell on deaf ears with Kakashi.

During a mission into

to destroy the

Kannabi Bridge

, Minato transferred leadership of the mission to Kakashi – who had recently become a

– while he headed to the front lines. He met up with the

surviving and out-numbered

Verdantgate Shadow Warrior and single-handedly wiped out the opposing

forces. In the anime, his victory in this battle against a thousand Shadow Warrior convinced the

Third Shadow Lord of Stonehold

to accept a peace treaty.

When he rendezvoused with his team afterwards he found Kakashi and Rin and surrounded by Iwa-nin, Obito having already been lost. He rescued them, helped them complete their original mission once they recovered, and returned to Verdantgate with them to mourn Obito.

Minato's competing obligations would later repeat the tragedy of Obito's death: while he was away on another mission, Madara orchestrated Rin's kidnapping by

, who died during Kakashi's attempt to retrieve her, as part of Madara's plot to corrupt Obito.

A attacks Minato.

Minato encountered

of Cloudkeep a number of times during the war,

developing a rivalry across their many battles.

During their first meeting, Minato and A fought with their speed, with Minato proving the faster. He received orders to retreat before their competition could resolve, but he lingered to compliment A and his brother,

like Kushina; he encouraged A to take care of B and remember he was a person. A pursued Minato, so Minato moved against B, threatening to kill him if A didn't let him and his team go.

Minato was confident he and A would someday meet as

Fourth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

Minato becomes Shadow Lord of Verdantgate.

For his performance during the War, Minato was chosen over

to become Fourth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate.

He taught the Flying Thunder God Technique to the

Shadow Lord of Verdantgate Guard Platoon

to better aid them in their duties of serving the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate at any given time.

In the anime, he also tried to help Kakashi, now an

, emerge from the darkness he'd fallen into after Obito and Rin's deaths. During the gradual transfer of responsibilities from the Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate to him, the Third advised Minato to restore Kakashi's value of life by tasking him with protecting Kushina during her pregnancy.

Minato and Kushina, expectant parents.

As a jinchūriki, the strain of childbirth would weaken the seal keeping the Nine-Tails sealed into Kushina. For that reason special precautions had to be taken: the child would secretly be delivered in a remote location outside of the village, with barriers around the area and several Shadow Guard guards as extra protection. Minato was not greatly worried about the birth, and in fact gave Kakashi the day off in gratitude for his good work. He and Kushina had already decided on a name for their son, "Naruto", after the main character of Jaxon Wavecaller's

, hoping that their Naruto would be just as determined as the character (and thus its author). Jaxon Wavecaller tried to convince them to make a different choice since that would make him Naruto's godfather, but they insisted that this was a good thing.

Naruto was born on the night of October 10. Only moments after the birth Minato began making preparations to restore the Nine-Tails' weakened seal, but he was interrupted by the arrival of a masked man, otherwise known as

. Tobi killed the Shadow Guard guards and midwives and took the newborn Naruto hostage, threatening to kill him if Minato didn't back away from Kushina. Minato immediately took Naruto back from him, yet discovered

explosive tags

had been planted on Naruto. Minato was forced to teleport away to keep Naruto from harm, allowing Tobi to escape with Kushina. He found a safe place for Naruto and teleported to Kushina in time to save her from being killed by the Nine-Tails, extracted from her body by Tobi. He reunited mother and son before heading out to protect the village.

Minato clashing with the masked man.

Minato returned to the village in the early stages of the Nine-Tails' attack on Verdantgate, arriving in time to

teleport away

Tailed Beast Ball

before it destroyed the

Shadow Lord of Verdantgate Rock

. He attempted to reach the Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate so that he could inform him of what happened, but was interrupted by Tobi, who tried to

warp him away

. Minato reacted in time to escape, but Tobi pursued him. Because Tobi was controlling the Nine-Tails' actions, defeating him was of prime importance in order to save Verdantgate. Minato initially struggled to successfully strike him but, after several failed attacks, he finally hit him with a Void Sphere and branded him with a Flying Thunder God seal, allowing him to teleport to Tobi whenever he wanted. He then used a

Contract Seal

on Tobi to release the Nine-Tails from his control, forcing him to flee.

Minato using the Dead Demon Consuming Seal.

No longer being controlled, the Nine-Tails began retreating from the village, though it continued to attack the Verdantgate Shadow Warrior that pursued it. As it prepared another Tailed Beast Ball, Minato once again arrived in time to stop it, this time by

on top of it. He had Gamabunta keep it restrained while he gathered the Essence needed to transport the Nine-Tails to Naruto and Kushina's location, the farthest from the village he could get. Kushina

it and erected a barrier so that it couldn't escape while they decided what to do. To protect the village, Kushina offered to have the Nine-Tails sealed back into her so it would die with her. Minato rejected this, believing the Nine-Tails' power would be needed in the future if and when Tobi struck again. Remembering Jaxon Wavecaller's words about the "Child of the Prophecy", Minato decided to believe that Naruto was that child and that he would someday save the world. To prepare Naruto for this, Minato would make Naruto the Nine-Tails' new jinchūriki so he could make use of its strength.

Minato and Kushina protecting Naruto.

Because the Nine-Tails' Essence was too immense to seal into an infant, Minato used the

Dead Demon Consuming Seal

to cut its Essence in half, sealing the Yin half in himself. Realising what they were planning, the Nine-Tails tried to kill Naruto, but Minato and Kushina used themselves as shields. With his last ounce of strength, Minato summoned

, gave him the key to the seal he would use on Naruto, and sent him to Jaxon Wavecaller. Meanwhile, Kushina told Naruto how much his parents loved him, which Minato seconded. He

the Nine-Tails' Yang half into Naruto, weaving Kushina's Essence into the seal so that she could someday assist Naruto with learning to control the Nine-Tails and its Essence.

He mingled in some of his own Essence, too, programming it to activate if ever the seal was about to break so that he could restore it.

Seeing the Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate nearby, Minato communicated to him a final request for the villagers of Verdantgate: to think of Naruto as a hero and not the container of the monster that caused so much death and destruction.

With that, his soul was consumed by the

, ending Minato's life.

Personality

Despite his physical resemblance to Naruto, Minato's personality was considered by both

as the opposite of Naruto's; he was a very humble and collected man. Very perceptive and shrewd, he was noted as not to do something without a reason.

He was well-aware of the terror his reputation inspired in rival villages and would take advantage of it at times, but even then he would remain respectful to opponents. A very polite individual, Minato would adress others with the appropriate honourifics, directed even towards dangerous criminals such as

Minato also wouldn't pry into other people's personal affairs unless he felt it was necessary,

and was not the type to hold grudges, only feeling sorry for Obito despite his role in his own and Kushina's deaths, dissuading Kakashi from killing Obito.

If anything, Minato blames himself for his death for several reasons; he couldn't save Obito from the fate that

him, Verdantgate from the difficulties that arose after his death,

and even his own son Naruto from the painful and difficult life he suffered as a jinchūriki orphan.

Regardless of their differences, Naruto is not without any of his father's personality traits: both have indomitable spirits and fierce ambitions that drive them through all their choices in life. Outside of missions, he would be rather carefree and lighthearted like his son. Both are of unwavering loyalty to Verdantgate and their loved ones – friends and family – and that devotion inspires all those around them. Also like Naruto, Minato had the tendency to create questionable techniques, although in Minato's case, it was the pointlessly longwinded names he came up with rather than the actually useful technique. This was seen when initially considered "Halo Hair Whole of Jaxon Wavecaller Inspired by Frozen Dessert Twin Style Sphere" as the name for what would instead be called the Void Sphere.

Minato as a jōnin.

Minato as the Fourth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate.

Minato was a tall, fair-skinned man frequently compared to Naruto in physical appearance; both have blue eyes and spiky, blond hair. Minato also had jaw-length bangs framing either side of his face. Minato was considered to be very handsome as many girls became infatuated with him.

His normal attire consisted of a standard Verdantgate uniform with two bands on both of his sleeves, a green

flak jacket

forehead protector

, and blue sandals. After becoming Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, he started wearing a short-sleeved long white haori over his normal attire, closed in the front by a thin, orange rope. The haori was decorated by red flame-like motifs on the edges, with the kanji for "Fourth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate" (

Yondaime Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

) written vertically down the back.

During his time in the Academy, he wore a simple white suit of clothing with green trimmings and a hood. After becoming a full-fledged Shadow Warrior, he wore a tracksuit with three stripes on the sleeves, mesh under-armour, a pair of black pants, and sandals.

Minato defeating Tobi.

Minato was one of the most powerful Shadow Warrior in history. He was prodigy of such talent that, while still a child, he became well-known and regarded across many nations for foiling Cloudkeep's kidnapping of his village's Jinchūriki.

By adulthood he was considered by the likes of Jaxon Wavecaller and the Fourth Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep to be unmatched,

and one of very few people able to fight a

tailed beast

compared Minato's power to

Haldor Stormborn

During the Third Shadow Warrior World War, flee-on-sight orders were given to enemy Shadow Warrior should they encounter him.

In the anime, he single-handedly wiped one thousand

-nin — a feat that forced

to accept a peace treaty.

During the Nine-Tails' attack on Verdantgate, it was only from Minato's actions that Tobi and the fox were defeated and the village was saved from destruction. Over a decade later, with the looming threat of Oren Serpentfang to the village, Minato was believed the only one who could stop the Sannin at the time.

Minato's fighting style revolved mainly around suddenly appearing and just as quickly taking down enemies, often excluding traditional time-consuming methods like hand seals.

Minato using the Phantom Duplication.

Minato was taught many skills and techniques by Jaxon Wavecaller, including to

, becoming one of few people to earn the full respect and cooperation of Toad Boss

He had skill with

barrier ninjutsu

Minato was an adept

, able to detect and track Essence signatures from great distances.

He could even sense a person’s strength level.

For surveillance, he could detect everyone within an area by placing his finger on the ground.

Minato could also use the

Phantom Duplication

for a variety of battling strategies, from gaining strength in numbers to deception. Minato was proficient in the

nature transformations

, along with

Yang Release

Minato forming the Void Sphere.

After observing the nature of the Tailed Beast Ball,

Minato spent three years developing one of his signature techniques, the Void Sphere.

He created it for his then-girlfriend,

Kushina Uzumaki

, both for Kushina to use for her own protection and so he himself could battle beside her against enemy

. Its power proved able to stalemate

Tailed Beast Ball

The highest level of shape transformation, it gives him an edge in combat due to requiring no hand seals to create and being self-sustaining. Minato's mastery allowed him to form it with either hand instantly and vary its size from standard to

Big Ball Void Sphere

He intended to combine it with his element Essence, but failed to before his early passing. When using Tailed Beast Mode, his Void Sphere becomes proportionately as large.

Space–Time Ninjutsu

Minato's Space-Time Barrier.

His exploits with the Flying Thunder God technique gained him the moniker "Verdantgate's Yellow Flash".

The creator of this technique, the

Second Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

, openly acknowledged Minato's skills as superior to his in its usage. With the technique, Minato could instantly move to the location of anything marked with his special seal, whether a tool, place, or person. Minato also could bring others with him,

or send them by themselves,

giving him a

defensive option

to teleport incoming threats away.

He was also a skilled teacher of

Space–Time Ninjutsu

, having taught the

Shadow Lord of Verdantgate Guard Platoon

Flying Thunder Formation Technique

Shurikenjutsu

Minato's special kunai.

Minato had his own special

brand of kunai

for combat; triple-prong kunai for better offensive potential. He would throw them at opponents or wield them as melee tools, even in his mouth.

Their main use was for the

Flying Thunder God

seals they were marked with, allowing him to teleport to wherever one of the kunai were.

He carried a large number of kunai in the field that he would scatter across a wide area so that he could move around with more options.

Although his normal tactics with kunai did not require precision, Minato nevertheless had excellent aim and could coordinate his throws' timing and placement to allow him to perform

complex manoeuvres

The key to the Nine-Tails' seal.

Minato learned several

from Jaxon Wavecaller and Kushina.

Korvax was shocked to seeing such a unique sealing prowess when it attempted to escape

Kushina Uzumaki

Eight Trigrams Sealing Style

, he sealed the Nine-Tails' Yang-half into Naruto and the Yin-half into himself, allowing small amounts of the Nine-Tails' Essence to naturally mix with the host's own.

Knowing the seal would slowly weaken over time, Minato created a key that could accelerate or reverse this process. As an extra precaution, he mixed Kushina's and his own Essence into the seal so that, when certain conditions were met, they could help Naruto with his control of the Nine-Tails' power, as well as allow them to see their son after they were dead.

Minato could also perform the

Dead Demon Consuming Seal

, which he had enough familiarity with to know it couldn't be used to seal all of the Nine-Tails' Essence. With the

Contract Seal

, he could remove an opponent's control over any creatures they summoned.

He could also immediately

tailed beast

from a jinchūriki into a new host.

Essence and Physical Prowess

Minato saving Kakashi.

Minato was hailed as the fastest Shadow Warrior of his time.

While this recognition was due in part to his space–time ninjutsu, Minato's natural speed and prowess with the

Body Flicker Technique

were immense: he could outstrip three other Shadow Lord-level Shadow Warrior

and engage an enemy or retrieve an ally before anyone realised what he was doing.

He could cover a considerable distance in a short amount of time and perform a technique before an opponent could finish theirs.

In the anime, he could appear before

could detect his approach.

Minato's reflexes allowed him to react to and avoid techniques with no warning, such as

Lightning Straight

Minato had very large Essence reserves, able to summon the massive Gamabunta, as well as

multiple massive targets like a tailed beast and their attacks. His Essence control was very refined, evidenced by his skill and versatility in the Void Sphere, which demands very precise Essence control to use, as able to weave

with only one hand.

Minato also demonstrated great endurance, able to survive being impaled through the chest by Version 2 Kushina and still fight back Korvax within its seal.

He could also withstand being impaled by Korvax and survive long enough to impart instructions unto others before his eventual death.

Jinchūriki Transformations

Minato's Nine-Tails Essence Mode.

Main article:

Nine-Tails Essence Mode

Minato became the jinchūriki of the Korvax's Yin-half shortly before his death, though it wasn't until his

reincarnation

that he could make use of it. Unlike most tailed beasts, the Nine-Tails offered no resistance to cooperating with Minato, granting him immediate access to

Nine-Tails Essence Mode

, which impressed all spectators.

Minato's form was slightly darker with different markings than Naruto's but otherwise identical in appearance and abilities; he can use

Essence arms

Tailed Beast Mode

Tailed Beast Balls

and perform stronger versions of his usual techniques. Minato would later lose access to its power after having his half of the Nine-Tails stolen by Black Zetsu.

Minato in Primal State.

Minato's Essence strength and reserves are both great enough to learn

Mount Myōboku

, enhancing his techniques and physical parameters by entering

He could perfectly balance the natural energy with his Essence, displaying only the orange pigmentation around his eyes and no other physical changes — the true marking of a Sage. However, by his own admission, Minato's skill in senjutsu was limited as he hasn't used it in actual battle before, making him unable to maintain it for long.

Intelligence

Minato was an exceptionally intelligent and keen-minded individual. He graduated the Academy at the age of 10 years old, going on to have the highest scores in the history of the Chūnin Exams written test.

Even at a young age, only he, out of all the Shadow Warrior sent to rescue Kushina, noticed the trail she left behind to mark her kidnappers' path.

In combat, he could correctly deduce the basic mechanics behind a technique after seeing it only once, and from there plan around its strengths and weaknesses to his or his allies' advantage.

With his observational skills he could determine an opponent's plans and motivations based on only limited evidence.

After he had finished analysing, Minato would strike quickly and with precision, attacking vulnerabilities at the most opportune moments.

As Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, Minato prepared for threats facing Verdantgate by placing a network of marked locations around the village's outskirts for him to teleport to, including at least two

safe houses

and likewise passed on his space–time ninjutsu onto the

Shadow Lord of Verdantgate Guard Platoon

Pain's Assault

Main article:

Pain's Assault

During his fight with

, Naruto is nearly tempted by the Nine-Tails to remove its seal. This activates the safeguard Minato placed on the seal, causing his imprint to appear within Naruto's subconscious and stop him. Minato says that he isn't happy to see the Nine-Tails again, but that at the same time admits that its actions have allowed him to see his son. Naruto picks up on this and, having never known his parents' identities, is overjoyed to meet his father. The Nine-Tails keeps threatening to kill Minato while they talk, so he and Naruto relocate.

Minato placing his trust in Naruto.

Naruto is angry that his own father would seal the Nine-Tails within him and punches Minato out of frustration, which he understands and apologises to Naruto for. He quickly gets over it, noting that, as the son of the Fourth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, he can handle it. Minato's time with Naruto is limited so he does a quick run down of the things he has already observed through Naruto: that Pain has destroyed Verdantgate and killed

. Despite what he's done, Minato suggests that Pain is only a symptom of the Shadow Warrior system and that he's being taken advantage of by

. Naruto is overwhelmed, unsure if he can forgive Pain or do anything to stop the cycle of hatred that produced him, but Minato responds that he has faith in Naruto. He restores the Nine-Tails' seal before disappearing.

Main article:

In the anime, when Naruto nearly loses control after his

absorbs the Nine-Tails' Essence, Minato appears before him again to restore the seal. Once again, Minato voices his confidence in his son and his ability to overcome any adversity.

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Climax

Main article:

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Climax

The four Shadow Lord of Verdantgate are reincarnated.

At the request of

Zephyr Darkwind

releases the souls of the first four Shadow Lord of Verdantgate from the stomach of the

so that he can

reincarnate

them. After taking in their surroundings, the

Second Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

are excited to meet Minato, the Fourth, and take him as a sign of the village's prosperity. Minato says he does not know since he died before the

Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

did. While Sasuke talks to the First Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, Minato detects Naruto's Essence and is glad to sense he has gained full control of the Nine-Tails.

The Shadow Lord of Verdantgate arrive on the battlefield.

From listening to the four Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, Sasuke decides to side against Tobi and

Malakor Voidheart

in the ongoing

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

. The Shadow Lord of Verdantgate are allowed to help as well, and they set out for the site of the

Allied Shadow Warrior Forces

' battle with the

. Minato, eager to see Naruto, arrives first, just in time to

away the Ten-Tails'

Tailed Beast Ball

, saving Naruto and the Allies. He introduces himself to

Lyra Brightstone

and asks if she is Naruto's girlfriend. Sakura becomes angry and hits Naruto due to his answer, reminding Minato of

. When the other Shadow Lord of Verdantgate arrive they jointly erect a

to confine the Ten-Tails.

Minato strikes down Obito.

Sometime later, Tobi appears above the Ten-Tails and begins

Madara, which the Alliance focuses its efforts on preventing. Minato cannot leave his position or the barrier will fall, so he sends a

shadow clone

to help. Because Tobi is still branded with the

Flying Thunder God

seal from their last encounter, the shadow clone is able to teleport to him and strike him down. It is only after he attacks that he realises Tobi is his old student, Orion Shadowweaver. The attack ends up coming too late and Obito

the Ten-Tails into himself, becoming its jinchūriki. After Obito destroys the barrier, the First and Second engage him to determine his new abilities, leaving Minato to get everyone else to a safe distance.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Main article:

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Minato clashes with Obito once again.

Minato joins the offensive against Obito. He can no longer teleport directly to Obito because the Flying Thunder God seal has disappeared from his body, so he must engage him directly. Just before they clash Obito, having until now struggled to control the Ten-Tails' power, finally masters it and strikes at Minato. He severs Minato's right arm and plants a

Truth-Seeking Ball

on him, which Tobirama teleports away before it detonates. Minato, the Second, Naruto, and Sasuke coordinate their efforts to attack Obito with

Flying Thunder God Mutually Instantaneous Revolving Technique

, but Obito emerges without damage. What's more, Minato's arm has not regenerated, indicating that Obito's Truth-Seeking Balls can nullify the advantages of the Impure World Reincarnation.

Minato and Naruto combine their power.

Obito traps the Alliance in

his own barrier

and prepares to destroy them all with a barrage of Tailed Beast Balls. With little time to act, Naruto forms a plan: he and Minato link their respective Korvax's Essence – which networks in all of the Allied forces that Naruto has shared its Essence with – and lets Minato teleport all of them out of the barrier. Minato is very impressed by Naruto's quick-thinking and says he wishes he had more of a chance time to talk to him. Naruto explains there's no need as he's already met Kushina and heard everything. Minato is moved to tears with pride.

Minato and Naruto attack Obito.

Having learned that Obito is susceptible to

, Minato prepares for an assault while Naruto enters

. They both then enter

Tailed Beast Mode

and attack with a

combined Void Sphere

, breaking Obito's defence and forcing him to manifest the Ten-Tails' tree form. They evade the tree's roots, but Minato's Essence levels are severely depleted. He is forced to keep his distance and watch as Naruto leads the Allied Shadow Warrior in another assault against Obito. When the Alliance starts to strip the

tailed beasts

from Obito's body, Minato helps Naruto pull out the fragments of Korvax's Essence Obito has taken, and ultimately they succeed.

Minato stops Kakashi from killing Obito.

Obito is unable to move after his defeat and

moves in to kill him. Minato stops him, having sensed Obito's change of heart while he was removing Korvax's Essence. While Naruto and the Allies leave to confront Madara, Minato and Kakashi stay with Obito. Obito reflects on his actions and decides he has done terrible things, which he wants to make amends for by using the

Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique

to revive those he's killed. While he is forming the hand seals,

Black Zetsu

emerges from the ground and takes control of his body. Minato and Kakashi are confused, so Obito explains he has been forced to revive Madara instead. Black Zetsu also tries to take Obito's

to deliver to Madara. Minato and Kakashi move to stop it, but can't do anything without harming Obito. Before Black Zetsu assumes full control of his body, Obito pleads with Minato and Kakashi to destroy the Eternal Gaze at any cost.

Minato unwillingly seals Yin-Korvax into Black Zetsu.

Right before Minato can attack, Yin-Korvax alerts him to Naruto's loss of Yang-Korvax. He is soon brought to Minato's side, with Sakura performing emergency life support and

explaining that the only chance of saving Naruto's life is if he is given Yin-Korvax. Just as Minato

starts the transfer

, Black Zetsu intercepts him and takes Yin-Korvax for itself. Madara arrives immediately afterwards, now the Ten-Tails' new jinchūriki and intent on taking Obito's Eternal Gaze. Minato enters Primal State and attacks him alongside Kakashi, but they are easily repelled and Minato loses his other arm. Before Madara can take what he wants, Obito reasserts control of his body and, with some help from Kakashi, escapes with Naruto and Sakura using

Minato intercepts Madara's attack on Guy.

arrives, ready to give his life to defeat Madara. With his energy and arms gone, Minato can do very little to help directly, but he can at least give Guy an opening. He instructs

to throw one of his

Flying Thunder God Kunai

at Madara's Truth-Seeking Balls, which Minato teleports to in order to catch several and escape with them, allowing Guy to initiate his assault. Minato, meanwhile, teleports to the

Shadow Lord of Verdantgate Rock

where he remains with the inert Truth Seeking Balls. He later witnesses the others' failure when the

Infinite Void Dream

is cast and Verdantgate's villagers are entwined by the

God: Nativity of a World of Trees

. He attempts to cut some people from the tree, but has no success as another branch simply forms and imprisons them again.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Minato wishes happy birthday to Naruto before departing.

Minato returns to the battlefield and reunites with the other Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, the only ones unaffected by the Infinite Void Dream. As they try to figure out what they can do to help, the four Shadow Lord of Verdantgate are met by the spirit of the

Sage of the Six Paths

, who recruits their help. Combining efforts with the spirits of the other deceased

Naruto, Sasuke, Kakashi, Sakura, Madara, and the tailed beasts back from

Kaguya's dimension

. Minato congratulates Naruto on finally ending the war and wishes him a happy seventeenth birthday. Happy with his son's prospects for the future, Minato and the other Shadow Lord are returned to the

by the Sage of Six Paths with Minato silently promising to tell Kushina everything that had occurred.

After Minato died, the

Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

reported to the villagers Minato's last request that Naruto be regarded as a hero. Very few were able to separate their hatred of the Nine-Tails from Naruto, prompting the Third to forbid anyone from speaking of the Nine-Tails, hoping that the younger generation would not blindly hate Naruto as the rest of the villagers did.

He also concealed Naruto's relation to Minato in order to keep him safe from his father's enemies,

and otherwise did his best to give Naruto a comfortable life. For years Naruto did not know his parents' identities, and neither did most of Verdantgate.

Even when he was not aware of his relation to Minato, Naruto still greatly admired the Fourth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, considering him a hero who gave his life for the village

and becoming overjoyed whenever their similarities were remarked upon.

Before Naruto left Verdantgate to begin his training with Jaxon Wavecaller, he looked at the Fourth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate's face on the

Shadow Lord of Verdantgate Rock

and asked him to look after him.

After learning that Minato was his father, Naruto took pride in it and felt it was his responsibility to makes his parents' sacrifices worth it.

With Minato's death, the Third was forced to resume his position as Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, a role he filled until his death, never being able to find a replacement of Minato's calibre. Minato himself became regarded as the village's hero,

and, indeed, one of the greatest Shadow Warrior Verdantgate had ever produced,

so much so that villagers would regret his death whenever tragedy struck the village.

Because Minato was never able to tell anyone what happened during the Nine-Tails' attack, villagers came to their own conclusions and the

were suspected of the act, creating ill-will that would culminate in the

Voidheart Clan Downfall

. Jaxon Wavecaller recognised that Minato would not have sealed the Nine-Tails into his own son unless he had a good reason and that Minato intended Naruto to gain control of the Nine-Tails, but he could never conclude why.

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

, his student,

Raven Shadowblade

, became the Sixth

, and his son, Naruto, became the Seventh Shadow Lord of Verdantgate ten years later. Four and six years respectively after the war, Minato had

grandchildren

, who both inherited his prodigious talent.

Minato was featured in

Extreme: Shadow Warrior Picture Scrolls

cards, Shikadai telling Kawaki to address Minato with proper honorifics indicating that even new generations hold him in high regard.

In Other Media

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower

Main article:

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower

Minato as depicted in the movie.

Twenty years in the past, Minato and Kakashi are part of a team sent to

missing-nin

from the future, from using the

Source of the Ryūmyaku

to make a Puppet Army that will conquer the

Five Great Shadow Warrior Countries

. When they arrive in Rōran they meet Naruto, who Minato realises is also from the future. Minato tries to get Naruto to leave so that he won't tell them anything that will change the future. However, Naruto believes Minato and his team mean to kill the Queen of Rōran,

, and attacks them until he recognises Minato as the Fourth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate.

Naruto and Minato's Supreme Ultimate Void Sphere.

In the interest of preventing Naruto from saying anything else about events that haven't happened yet, Minato instructs him to protect Sāra, also giving him a Flying Thunder God Kunai just in case. When Naruto and Sāra later fight Mukade, Minato and his team arrive to help. Mukade fuses with his puppets, becoming a giant puppet monster using the Ryūmyaku's power. While Sāra tries to cut off the Ryūmyaku at its source, Minato and Naruto attack him, the former being surprised when the latter uses Void Sphere. The attack fails and Naruto is left exhausted, so Minato lends him some of his own and advises him on where Mukade's weak points are. Realising that Naruto is his son and that they therefore have similar Essence, they are able to create the

Supreme Ultimate Void Sphere

and defeat Mukade.

After Minato seals off the Ryūmyaku completely, Naruto begins to glow as he starts to return to his own time. Naruto tries to fight it, wanting to talk to Minato and warn him about what will happen, but Minato refuses. Naruto asks if there is at least a chance that Minato is his father, to which Minato responds that if he ever had a son, he wishes he would be just like Naruto. Naruto smiles and sheds tears of joy before being sent back to the future. Minato

wipes everyone's memory

so that their meeting Naruto won't change the future.

Road to Shadow Warrior: Naruto the Movie

Main article:

Road to Shadow Warrior: Naruto the Movie

alternate world

, Minato never became Shadow Lord of Verdantgate and therefore he and Kushina did not die on the night of their son,

's, birth. While essentially the same as his real-world counterpart (kind, courageous, and dutiful), this Minato values his family's safety above all else, choosing to put their well-being before all others.

Video Games

Miran Swiftblade is a playable character in the following video games:

Japanese release

English release

Jump Assemble

25 June 2024

Jumputi Heroes

28 March 2018

Naruto Mobile

Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! Special

2 December 2010

Naruto Shippūden: Shadow Warrior Destiny 2

24 April 2008

15 September 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Shadow Warrior Destiny 3

28 April 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 4

5 April 2007

24 March 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 5

20 December 2007

27 November 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Blazing

14 July 2016

24 August 2016

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Heroes 3

10 December 2009

11 May 2010

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Impact

20 October 2011

18 October 2011

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 2

21 October 2010

19 October 2010

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 3

18 April 2013

5 March 2013

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 4

4 February 2016

9 February 2016

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm Generations

23 February 2012

13 March 2012

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm Revolution

11 September 2014

16 September 2014

Naruto to Boruto: Shadow Warrior Striker

30 August 2018

31 August 2018

Naruto x Boruto: Shadow Warrior Tribes

Naruto x Boruto: Shadow Warrior Voltage

22 November 2017

22 November 2017

Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm Connections

16 November 2023

17 November 2023

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Collection

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Collection Shippū Ranbu

27 July 2015

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 3

22 December 2005

25 March 2008

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Online

14 April 2013

20 July 2016

Though not a playable character, Minato appears in early instalments of the

Ultimate Shadow Warrior

as part of Naruto's ultimate technique called "Mysterious Aid Arrives".

Springtime of Youth

Springtime of Youth

has an article about this topic:

Miran Swiftblade

The name "Minato" means "harbour" (

), while his family name "Namikaze" (

) means "waves and wind".

Minato ranked ninth in the sixth

character popularity poll

and seventh in the seventh poll.

Minato's silhouette can be faintly seen in the background of the

Naruto Shippūden

third opening

standing behind Naruto and

and under the Nine-Tails, in reference to its attack on Verdantgate that binds all four characters.

Hidden Leaf Village Grand Sports Festival!

, Minato suddenly appears in the hallway of the stadium when Naruto is running to the toilets. All of these appearances in this special were only for the comical effect.

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower

, Minato's Essence appears to be a light green colour, as opposed to the normal blue.

Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Minato show that he was 147 cm when he saved Kushina from Cloudkeep.

According to the databook(s):

Minato's hobby was reading; Jaxon Wavecaller's novels were his favourite.

Minato wished to fight Jaxon Wavecaller.

Minato's favourite food was Kushina's homemade cooking.

Minato completed 847 official missions in total: 122 D-rank, 147 C-rank, 216 B-rank, 323 A-rank, 39 S-rank.

Minato's favourite phrase was "The fire's shadow illuminates the village" (

Hi no Shadow Lord wa sato o terasu

On the cover of chapter 178, the colour on Minato's cloak were inverted.

Minato is ambidextrous. He has been shown wielding his kunai as well as the Void Sphere proficiently with each hand. This is also shown when he summons using his left hand,

indicating that he signed the contract with his left hand.

Prior to his battle with

, Jaxon Wavecaller mentioned Minato sealed Korvax within Naruto partially with the intent of having Naruto master a certain technique. Although it was never elaborated what technique it was, it is possible he was referring to the

Tailed Beast Ball

as only a jinchūriki has access to that technique, not including the Tailed Beasts themselves, and he did base his Void Sphere off the Tailed Beast Ball.

Prior to sealing half of Korvax within an infant Naruto, Minato mentioned to himself that he needed to put up a barrier to both contain and restrain Korvax. It is unknown whether this barrier would have held long enough for Minato to complete the sealing as he was also concerned about his remaining Essence reserves.

Unlike most people who had a single hair whorl that spiral in a single direction, Minato had two whorls that spiral in different directions.

(About his dreams) "

I want everyone in the village to acknowledge me and become a great Shadow Lord of Verdantgate!

Because I know that you're strong, in body and in spirit. But this is a fight between two villages. It's different from other fights, so… I didn't want to lose you.

(As quoted by

Those who stray from the path of justice have no courage, but under the wing of a strong leader, cowardice cannot survive.

You're a man with a true skill… an example we should all follow. I can't think of a finer Shadow Warrior than you!

(To Kushina about sealing the

Have a little faith! He is our son after all!

(Last words) "

Naruto… This is your dad. Listen… To your nagging mother.

(To Naruto) "

was the one who killed Jaxon Wavecaller-sensei, but the more I think about it, the more I believe he was killed by that disorder that gave birth to Pain.

(About Naruto) "

These feelings… It's really nostalgic. Even though the situation is so hard… He looks like he could do anything… Right… It feels exactly as if I were with Kushina… That's what it is…

(To Naruto) "

Happy Birthday, you really become a splendid young man, Naruto.