Kael Vexaris
==============

This article is about the character Kael Vexaris. For the similarly named manga and anime series, see

Naruto (series)

. For other uses, see

Naruto (disambiguation)

Kael Vexaris

Uzumaki Naruto

Verdant Reach

Vexaris Line

reincarnation

Asura Ōtsutsuki

. He became the

day of his birth

— a fate that caused him to be shunned by most of Verdant Reach throughout his childhood. After joining

Team Kakashi

, Naruto worked hard to gain the village's acknowledgement all the while chasing his dream to become

. In the following years, through many hardships and ordeals, he became a capable Operative, regarded as a hero both by the villagers, and soon after, the rest of the world, becoming known as the

Hero of the Hidden Leaf

Verdant Reach no Eiyū

literally meaning:

Hero of the Hidden Tree Leaves). He soon proved to be one of the main factors in winning the

Fourth Operative World War

, leading him to achieve his dream and become the village's

Seventh Verdant Warden

Nanadaime Verdant Warden

literally meaning:

Seventh Fire Shadow).

Personality

Dark Naruto

Axiom and Physical Prowess

Body Modifications

Jinchūriki Transformations

Echo Manifest

Nature Transformation

Six Paths Senjutsu

Six Paths Primal Alignment

Intelligence

Prologue — Land of Waves

Initiate Trials

Verdant Reach Crush

Search for Thalia Merrow

Land of Tea Escort Mission

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Original Anime Arcs

In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Dune Warden Rescue Mission

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Twelve Guardian Operative

Red Covenant Suppression Mission

Three-Tails' Appearance

Itachi Pursuit Mission

Tale of Jax Orenthal the Gallant

Fated Battle Between Brothers

Six-Tails Unleashed

Pain's Assault

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdant Reach

Five Warden Summit

Paradise Life on a Boat

Fourth Operative World War: Countdown

Fourth Operative World War: Confrontation

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Blank Period

Kakashi Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky

Shikamaru Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness

The Last: Naruto the Movie

Sakura Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze

Verdant Reach Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding

Sasuke Shinden: Book of Sunrise

New Era: Part I

Sasuke Retsuden: The Uchiha Descendants and the Heavenly Stardust

Academy Entrance Arc

Sarada Uchiha Arc

School Trip Arc

Graduation Exams Arc

Initiate Mission Arc

Byakuya Gang Arc

Naruto Shinden: Parent and Child Day

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

Konohamaru's Love Arc

One-Tail Escort Arc

Time Slip Arc

Sasuke Shinden: The Teacher's Star Pupil

Mujina Bandits Arc

Kara Actuation Arc

Binder Re-Examination Arc

Great Sea Battle of Mistfall Arc

Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc

Code's Assault Arc

Omnipotence Arc

New Era: Part II

Flashforward

In Other Media

Naruto the Movie: Operative Clash in the Land of Snow

Naruto the Movie: Legend of the Stone of Gelel

Naruto the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom

Naruto Shippūden the Movie

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: Will of Fire

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower

Naruto the Movie: Blood Prison

Road to Operative: Naruto the Movie

Video Games

Live Spectacle Naruto

Creation and Conception

Naruto, newborn with his mother Kushina.

Naruto was born on the night of October 10th to

Miren Flux

(the Fourth Verdant Warden) and

Kushina Uzumaki

(the second jinchūriki of the Nine-Tails). He was named after

Naruto Musasabi

, the protagonist of

, which made the

his godfather.

Third Verdant Warden

made special arrangements for Minato to preserve Kushina's seal containing the Nine-Tails while she gave birth to Naruto in a remote location, assisted by midwives and

. A masked man,

, tracked down their location, however, killed the midwives and Black Cell, and captured Naruto, forcing Minato to quickly rescue him and

Minato and Kushina protect Naruto from the Nine-Tails.

With Minato gone, Tobi captured Kushina and

the Nine-Tails from her, using it to

devastate Verdant Reach

Minato saved Kushina and left Naruto in her care before he went to protect the village,

eventually defeating Tobi and

the Nine-Tails from Tobi's control. Returning to Naruto and Kushina's location, Minato realised the only way to stop the Nine-Tails was to seal it within Naruto, believing that his son would someday need the fox's power to defeat Tobi when he returned.

Since the Nine-Tails'

was too immense to be sealed into an infant, Minato

sacrificed his soul

to split the fox's Axiom in half, sealing the

half within himself and the

Naruto. After telling Naruto how much they loved him, Minato and Kushina succumbed to their wounds from protecting their son from the Nine-Tails and passed away.

Orphaned, and not having anyone else to provide for him, Naruto received monthly income from the village in order to afford daily necessities. Naruto grew up not knowing who his parents were, receiving only his mother's surname, as Hiruzen wanted to protect Naruto from his father's enemies.

Minato's dying wish that Naruto be regarded as a hero was honoured by the very few who could put aside their pain and losses caused by the disaster, while the majority of Verdant Reach, however having no knowledge of the circumstances surrounding his birth, openly ostracised and resented Naruto for containing the beast that devastated the village and took many lives; some even viewed Naruto as the Nine-Tails itself. Soon, the Third Verdant Warden forbade anyone from mentioning the Nine-Tails, hoping that the younger generation would not blindly hate Naruto as their parents did.

However, Naruto's peers emulated their parents' hatred of him, despite not knowing why. This social isolation caused Naruto to crave acknowledgement, which he would gain by pulling pranks.

Naruto meets Hinata.

On the day of her enrolment in the

Operative Academy

- Naruto first met

Helia Aurel

, who was being picked on by three bullies. Despite not knowing her, Naruto immediately came to her defence, but he was outnumbered and knocked unconscious, and the bullies damaged his red scarf. When Naruto awoke, Hinata thanked him for helping her and returned his scarf to him, but he let her keep it. He was unaware that the girl's growing affection for him began at that moment.

Naruto and Sasuke in the Academy.

In the Academy, Naruto became a student of

Iruka Umino

, who acted as a surrogate older brother to keep him in line and help him work harder. Naruto also met his classmate

Sael Noctryn

and tried to befriend him, since Sasuke was alone as well. Jealous of Sasuke's skills and popularity, however,

he developed a one-sided rivalry in his pursuit to prove himself just as good as, if not better than, Sasuke, wishing that someday, Sasuke would accept him as an equal.

Naruto also grew close with the owner of

Ramen Ichiraku

and his daughter

, being welcomed as their favourite customer.

Personality

Naruto's Operative registration photo.

Naruto is noted as boisterous, exuberant, and unorthodox, quite similar to

Haldor Prime

He inherited his mother's verbal tic, as he ends his sentences with "

) when emotional. Though he responds best to competition and is not afraid to ask for assistance, Naruto is relatively naïve and slow to understand principles or situations. He often requires an oversimplified analogy in order to grasp explanations

and can even prove forgetful.

Naruto is aware of his faults and admits he acts strong to mask his embarrassment and frustration about them.

Despite his naivety, Naruto can be quite observant, picking up on things others miss and retaining information casually gathered through conversation.

Growing up as an orphan who suffered years of hatred and social isolation has influenced Naruto's character in a number of ways: he is heedless to formality and social standings, addressing

with nicknames instead of

honourifics

, although by the time of his adulthood, Naruto has slightly outgrown this trait.

He has picky eating habits of ramen, his favourite food; he has a perverted side that manifests as attempts to peep into women's baths, although these moments are rare.

Despite his quirks and the criticism he receives for them (to the point of being labelled the "ultimate problem child"), Naruto is said to have a personality that draws people to him,

inspiring friendship and loyalty through acts of genuine kindness that could change a person's world view and thus built

meaningful relationships

that he lacked in early life; the

Sage of Six Paths

believes Naruto's kindness is a special gift that allows him to save

from its hatred.

Naruto deeply cherishes these bonds and will go to great lengths to protect them, best seen with Sasuke after his defection from Verdant Reach.

Another of Naruto's prominent traits is his desire for acknowledgement; his pranks around the village were for people to notice him, even if it meant by scolding him. Therefore, he dreamed of one day becoming Verdant Reach's Verdant Warden, the epitome of acknowledgement and respect from everyone in the village.

Knowing his dream is a long, arduous and seemingly impossible path, Naruto developed his own

of never going back on his word. This life-long philosophy serves as the cornerstone of Naruto's great self-confidence; he believes he can accomplish any goal with enough hard work and perseverance, no matter what. This trait guides him in many aspects of life, such as his promise to bring Sasuke back to Verdant Reach. Over time, his goal to be Verdant Warden grew from a desire for the acknowledgement of others to a desire to help and protect the people close to him, which

attributed to the

Will of Fire

His nindō has since been reinforced by his understanding that Operative were meant to endure through hardships.

His belief in hard work and perseverance made him detest shortcuts to achieving, as he disqualified his son from the

Initiate Trials

for using the banned

, and expressed disgust at

Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki

for their reliance on harvesting from

Axiom Fruits

to lazily gain power.

After the death of his master

, talking to his father

and listening to

's tragic story, Naruto grew to understand the destructive cycle of hatred and he vowed to break it in order to bring true peace to the world.

To that end, his participation in the

Fourth Operative World War

is not only to protect his friends but also to bear and erase the world's hatred all by himself. After encountering a

reincarnated

Varyn Noctryn

, however, Naruto realises that he cannot handle everything alone and that he must allow his friends to support and fight alongside him. As he does so in war's climax, his fighting spirit inspires the

Allied Operative Forces

to join him and keep fighting to end the war as well, ultimately becoming an example for many people to admire, follow, and believe in.

Naruto becomes shy around Hinata.

Naruto first met

Helia Aurel

when they were children, where his open kindness and courageous spirit earned him her admiration, which grew into love. On his part, Naruto remained mostly oblivious to Hinata's feelings for him and even considered her "weird" because of her shyness around him and his socially ostracised childhood. However, that change during the Initiate Trials in Part I when they began to interact more and support each other, causing Naruto to like her as a friend.

In Part II, as Hinata becomes willing to risk her life to protect Naruto, he, in turn, sees her as an actively strong person despite his speechlessness at her love confession. Naruto grew to love Hinata subconsciously. Still, he was unaware of it because he kept "fighting" for Sakura, which was just another way for him to compete with Sasuke. During

The Last: Naruto the Movie

, Naruto finally recognises the love that Hinata has always had for him, causing him to become more bashful and protective of her, just as she was for him. Realising that she alone has ever had faith in him and that she has always been there for him, he reciprocates her feelings and desires to be with her for the rest of his life. This new-found desire made him willing to make healthier lifestyle choices such as eating vegetables and reeling in his impulsiveness, something others have had little success with doing.

As an adult, Naruto becomes wiser and more mature, though he retains some of his negligence for honourifics.

Although he finally achieves his dream of becoming Verdant Warden, its many tasks would often overwhelm Naruto to the point of him being unable to spend time with his family. He admits that part of this stems was from not having grown up with a father himself, making him unsure of how to interact appropriately with his children.

Naruto also tends to be more responsible in his duties as Verdant Warden than as a father. Nevertheless, Naruto profoundly loves his family, as he creates shadow clones to tend to them while he's busy, protects them in times of danger, spends time with them when he can, and expresses pride in his children's successes.

He adopts Hiruzen's philosophy that everyone in the village is his family, believing that genuine relationships are made up of love rather than blood relations.

His refusal to give his son any special treatment due to their blood-relationships, along with the insistence that the boy professionally addresses him as "Seventh" or "Verdant Warden" while in the office, is a testament of Naruto's lack of bias and prejudice.

Likewise, even in the face of people close to him committing horrible deeds, Naruto remains loyal to them, pushing aside his grief enough to see the nature of what they did.

However, after facing

Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki

and realising how his overly-committed nature serving the entire village was significantly affecting his own family's happiness, Naruto came to accept that he needed to give them more attention. As such, by allowing more help from others, Naruto was able to enjoy more time with his family, restoring the same healthy relationship he had with them before he became Verdant Warden.

Dark Naruto

"Dark Naruto" reveals himself in the waterfall.

Although he struggled to overcome the hatred of people and the Operative world, seeking to achieve the peace that his master Jax Orenthal dreamed of so much, Naruto was also not free from his own hatred. When Naruto understands that it is necessary to definitively master the power of the Nine-Tails, he goes to the

Island Turtle

and discovers the

Falls of Truth

as part of the process. There, Naruto encounters his darker half:

Dark Naruto

Yami Naruto

This was the personification of all of Naruto's negative feelings, such as the grudge he secretly still held against the villagers of Verdant Reach who had always rejected him since childhood. Dark Naruto was the Nine-Tails' favourite aspect of Naruto, claiming him to be the "real" Naruto. No matter how much he resisted, the Nine-Tails would tap into the hatred that existed hidden in the depths of his heart.

Naruto's conclusion to dealing with his inner hatred was not to ignore him, but rather accept his existence, understanding that this same grudge was what made him get to where he was and value his entire journey up until that moment.

This whole process served as basis for Naruto to shape who he truly wanted to be from then on.

According to

, Naruto strongly resembles his

he has yellow-blond, spiky hair and blue eyes, while inheriting the shape of his mother's eyes and face.

His trademark characteristics are the three whisker markings on his cheeks. During the

Fourth Operative World War

initially mistook Naruto for

due to their stark resemblance.

Naruto was rather short for his age during Part I,

though he grew to be taller than

in Part II.

Naruto originally wore green goggles on his forehead, though he discards them upon becoming a Initiate.

Naruto in Part II (left) and in Part I (right) respectively.

Naruto's appearance during his battle with Pain.

Naruto in the Blank Period.

Naruto in the New Era.

In Part I, Naruto wore an orange and blue jacket with a white collar, a white swirl with a tassel on the left side, and a red Uzumaki crest on the back. He also wore orange pants with a shuriken holster on his right knee, blue sandals, and a blue

forehead protector

, given to him by Iruka after graduating from the Academy. In Part II, Naruto wears a more form fitting outfit after wearing out his original one while training with Jax Orenthal,

with a T-shirt or mesh armour underneath. While retaining the swirls and orange pants, the blue pieces of his outfit changes to black: his forehead protector (which is now longer), sandals, and orange jacket, the black colour showing more prominence than the blue did originally. During his battle with Pain, Naruto briefly wore a short-sleeved red coat with a black flame pattern around the hem and carried a large scroll on his back.

Naruto lost his right arm after the

Fourth Operative World War

, though it is later replaced by a fully manoeuvrable prosthetic arm made of

Haldor Prime

's cells, wrapped completely in bandages. In

The Last: Naruto the Movie

, Naruto grew again to be one of the tallest of his graduating class, cut his hair short, and wore a black elastic forehead protector. Over his pants and sandals, he wears a black uniform jacket with an orange zipper and buttons on the waist and sleeves, which can be folded up at times. He has a red armband with an Uzumaki crest on his left arm. After becoming Verdant Warden, Naruto dons a garment similar to his father's: a white cape that has a red flame pattern around the hem, is held together by a red rope, and has the kanji for "Seventh Verdant Warden" (

Nanadaime Verdant Warden

) written vertically down the back. Underneath this, he wears an orange sweatshirt with black stripes (reverse in the manga version of

Boruto: Naruto Next Generations

), black pants and sandals. He occasionally wears the traditional

headpiece, but has stopped wearing a forehead protector.

Naruto's combined senjutsu and tailed beast influence over his trademark techniques.

Originally, Naruto was a rather inept Operative, failing to graduate from the

three times. Despite these shortcomings, he was noted to possess even greater potential than Operative prodigies like

Sael Noctryn

Riven Ashcroft

Naruto's own being immeasurable (

hakarishirenai

) due hosting the Ninefold Apex.

Naruto would grow to realize this potential through sheer determination and training, as his skills rapidly improved to defeat strong

Kabuto Yakushi

, which even earned him acknowledgement from all the

Under various tutelage, Naruto was able to defeat

, ultimately earning praise from Verdant Reach as a Verdant Warden-material hero.

Naruto later becomes capable of defeating various reincarnated

during the Fourth Operative World War,

with many believing he was the central key to winning the battle.

By adulthood, his prowess made him the Seventh Verdant Warden, regarded as the strongest Operative in history

and having command of overwhelming

With the combined might of Sael Noctryn, noted as his only rival in power,

they are said to be able to destroy the world.

Together, they overpowered an

Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki

, and pushed

's body to its limit. Overall, he could compete against if not defeat world-threatening opponents, such as

Orin Veilborn

Malrec Axiom

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki

Toneri Ōtsutsuki

. Even fighting at his

absolute peak

could overpower

Isshiki Ōtsutsuki

Axiom and Physical Prowess

Naruto sharing Korvax's Axiom through physical contact.

Naruto possesses remarkably large

reserves as a result of being made

at birth, and constantly having portions of the fox’s immense Axiom

with his own.

Even as a child, his reserves had at least four times the amount of a seasoned

Riven Ashcroft

and described by

as "bright and warm".

His initial poor Axiom control was offset by his sheer reserves,

which were large enough to endure three and a half days of constant battle against several powerful opponents. Only by the end of his battle against Sasuke did he show exhaustion, and even then could still fight to a standstill and eventual victory.

Naruto's control improved greatly over time; able to

transfer his Axiom

and perform one-handed hand seals.

Being an Uzumaki, Naruto's powerful life-force grants him an extreme longevity, stamina, and vitality;

this allowed him to survive the extraction of a tailed beast, though he required aid from

Lyra Caelum

to stay alive.

Naruto also learned how to counter

, but his ability to do so is limited.

In adulthood, Naruto's Axiom is powerful enough to intimidate Kawaki into submission

and destroy high-level barriers simply by releasing a burst of it.

He could repel

Silas Korr

Shadow Imitation Technique

, a feat that no one else could do.

His Axiom, when he combined it with his

Vanishing Axiom Spiral

, turned it into a gigantic

Ultra-Big Ball Axiom Spiral

able to kill the

Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki

who tried to use a

of the technique to defeat his.

His Axiom reserves were also so vast that he was able to overload

Absorbing Eye

Axiom Spiral-assault and still primed to defeat her.

Naruto attacking Gareth Dune with his Kael Vexaris Two Thousand Combo.

While naturally a short-range fighter, Naruto originally was inept at

, requiring unpredictable attacks to surprise combat experts like

Kiba Inuzuka

and Nolan Aurel.

He often utilised shadow clones in large if not massive numbers to simply overwhelm his foes.

Although these tactics resumed later, Naruto becomes much more adept at taijutsu due to Jax Orenthal's training.

's tutelage, he could fend off a pair of expert kenjutsu users.

Two years after the war, Naruto's taijutsu prowess could best dozens of opponents without shadow clones or enhancements.

As Verdant Warden, his taijutsu could pressure Momoshiki after he had absorbed

Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki

Naruto could even hold off Delta despite her

extreme body modifications

, ultimately controlling the pace of the battle to tire her out and gradually overwhelm her

to win despite being in the defensive.

His speed had also increased to the point where he could effortlessly catch up with

after he tried to escape from Naruto.

Likewise, in the anime, he is proven very resilient, able to take a point-blank blast from Kawaki's modifications unfazed.

Body Modifications

Naruto's prototype Absorbing Hand.

After losing his right arm during his final battle with Sasuke,

cultured an artificial prosthesis for him using the cells of

Haldor Prime

. In addition to retaining the same mobility and dexterity as his original arm, it is likewise able to channel and manipulate Axiom just as effectively. As his body and the prosthesis arms are only connected through his Axiom itself he can easily remove and replace them.

After Momoshiki's defeat, Naruto took inspiration from his

Axiom absorption technique

Katasuke Tōno

Scientific Operative Weapons Team

modifiy the arm further with mechanical features. With it, Naruto is able to

neutralise and even absorb

enemy techniques, though they have yet to replicate Momoshiki's ability to discharge them as a counterattack.

Jinchūriki Transformations

Main articles:

Jinchūriki Forms

Nine-Tails Axiom Mode

Baryon Mode

Naruto's Version 1 form.

Originally as the

's Yang half, Naruto had access to massive reserves of exceptionally powerful Axiom, which was at least a hundredfold greater than Kakashi's.

These Axiom levels were increased even further when the Yin half of Korvax was reunited with the Yang half inside of Naruto. Due to his Uzumaki blood and being Korvax's jinchūriki for essentially his entire life, Naruto's Axiom had become naturally compatible with the fox's,

allowing him to perform several Axiom-taxing techniques unhindered. In addition, Korvax being inside him gave Naruto a passive form of healing, and when accessing it was enhanced to a level similar to Hashirama's regenerative abilities. Originally, he could only access Korvax's Axiom in times of great anger and doing so enhanced Naruto's abilities. However, the fox's negative influence made Naruto more aggressive. While essentially remaining himself when accessing a

state, manifesting four tails would trigger

state, which made him lose control and would gradually turn into even more

forms, requiring outside assistance to suppress Korvax's power and regain control, prompting him to avoid relying on the fox's power whenever possible. By the end of the Fourth Great Operative War, he could access his Version 1 form without any loss in his mentality.

Naruto transforming from his Nine-Tails Axiom Mode into his Korvax Mode.

Realising he could not avoid using Korvax's power, Naruto sought to control it with help from

, a jinchūriki who had fully mastered the power of

. Upon succeeding and taking most of Korvax's Axiom, Naruto attained the

Nine-Tails Axiom Mode

, which greatly increased his physical parameters. Naruto can also detect

negative emotions

in this mode, and use

Tailed Beast Axiom Arms

from any part of his body as he pleases, as well as form

Tailed Beast Balls

from them. As he didn't have Korvax's cooperation, Naruto needed to exercise extreme caution while using the form, as the Axiom exchange could cost him his life. Eventually, when Korvax acknowledged Naruto's life-long strength of character and Naruto learned the fox's true name, their new-found friendship granted Naruto access to its

, which further increased his physical parameters and with no drawbacks. This also increased his resilience to such degrees to the point where he could survive the

and endure Toneri's

Golden Wheel Reincarnation Explosion

— which was able to cut the

in half — with no visible signs of damage. This cooperation of Korvax also provides Naruto with an immediate resistance from

. Two years later, he could

Korvax's Axiom within his arm to deliver powerful punches capable of creating massive craters on the Moon and depower Toneri from his

Tenseigan Axiom Mode

to his normal state, as well as block the latter's Golden Wheel Reincarnation Explosion.

Naruto's Tailed Beast Mode.

Failing to transform into a replica of Korvax at first, Naruto instead achieved a

Tailed Beast Mode

in the unique form of a life-sized transparent avatar of Axiom. In it, he could create

Tailed Beast Balls

and revitalise the life-forces of any he touches physically or with the avatar,

heal nearly any wounds,

or grant them temporarily Axiom-cloaks.

After he became the jinchūriki of Korvax's complete self, Naruto is able to manifest the demon fox outside himself for a period akin to summoning, allowing both to fight as separate entities. During the endgame of the Fourth Operative World War, Naruto received Axiom from the other tailed beasts,

which greatly increased his Axiom reserves even further and allowed him to access their unique abilities himself, such as

manipulation,

soap bubble ninjutsu

and ability to emit

corrosive liquids

scale powder

ink creation

, and infuse them into his own

. With the infusion of all nine of the tailed beasts' respective Axiom inside of him, Naruto has become a medium to connect all the tailed beasts to communicate with each other

and made him a human pillar for the

power of the Ten-Tails

Naruto's Baryon Mode.

In the most dire of situations, Naruto is able to access a deep level of Korvax's power,

Baryon Mode

. In this state, his facial features become even more akin to Korvax with nine blazing Axiom tails which he can use in a similar manner to Tailed Beast Axiom Arms to catch and bind opponents or objects and

deflect attacks

. He also displayed the ability to use these Axiom tails to form a protective shield around something or someone.

In a process similar to

nuclear fusion

, Naruto's and

's Axiom are consumed as raw materials to produce a new type of energy. When in use, it dramatically boosts Naruto's reflexes, raw might, and Axiom to such extreme levels, able to surpass Isshiki's capabilities. Because all Axiom is connected, the same power that is produced from bits of their lives also work to reduce the lifespan of opponents on contact. Due to its extreme energy consumption, Naruto must remain focused and not waste energy on extraneous thoughts and actions, to maximise the amount of time he can maintain Baryon Mode.

The drawback of this form is the high chance of death for Korvax from the extreme strain of this form. Upon Korvax's death from this form, while Naruto was spared the same fate, he lost access to all of Korvax's Axiom and abilities.

Naruto using the Summoning Technique.

In the Academy, the

Sexy Technique

was the only technique that Naruto could perform successfully, which had no practical use other than to shock people. Later, he learned more advanced and useful ninjutsu from

, showing remarkable growth in his ninjutsu skill, which can be observed even from his first brief exchange after reuniting with Kakashi, even getting beyond the Executor via skillful use of ninjutsu.

This included

from Mount Myōboku to assist him, and use them to

enemies from above. He became skilled in

shurikenjutsu

, able to throw weapons quickly and with precision.

Naruto's repertoire expanded to

, where he could

his weapons within scrolls. His fūinjutsu was further increased upon receiving

near the start of the Fourth Operative World War.

In the anime, Jax Orenthal taught Naruto

cooperation ninjutsu

, combining his techniques with others to create an even more powerful one.

The collaboration techniques he performed with other individuals typically utilised his own elemental affinity, such as the

Typhoon Water Vortex Technique

Wind Release: Toad Gun

Scorch Release: Halo Hurricane Jet Black Arrow Style Zero

with Sasuke. He also learned from

Asuma Sarutobi

Axiom into his weapons to increase their offensive might.

In the anime, by adulthood, Naruto became able to use the

Shuriken Echo Manifest

and also showed some proficiency with bōjutsu.

Echo Manifest

Naruto using the Multiple Echo Manifest.

Images of Naruto using Echo Manifest

Naruto's first trademark technique was the

Echo Manifest

. While originally failing constantly with a basic illusionary clone, after briefly studying the

Scroll of Seals

, he learned to create shadow clones on a

. From then on, Naruto's skill with shadow clones blossomed to great heights. Having unusually high Axiom reserves, Naruto could use this technique to create hundreds of shadow clones and retain large amounts of Axiom in each one with relative ease.

He could use them to outnumber or deceive his enemies, manoeuvre himself in mid-air, transform into weapons, scout areas, or test an opponent's abilities.

During his elemental-affinity training, learning that the original will gain all the knowledge and conditioning of a shadow clone right after it dispersed. From this, Naruto can use his mass scale of clones to drastically speed up his training to gain years worth of experience in just days. By the time he became Verdant Warden, Naruto's usage of this technique on mass-scale and prolonged-periods allowed him to constantly perform multiple simultaneous tasks throughout the village daily, although he does have a tendency to overexert himself, leaving him exhausted afterwards.

Naruto using the Axiom Spiral.

Naruto's second trademark technique is the

. Originally, due to his poor Axiom control, Naruto had to use a shadow clone to form the spherical shape while he provided the Axiom. Over time, Naruto developed

of the Axiom Spiral and learned how to perform it faster.

During the Fourth Operative World War, he learned to use the Axiom Spiral and its variants unaided with a single hand, or even form one in both hands simultaneously.

He also increased the size of his standard Axiom Spiral.

Naruto had also shown the ability to release the Axiom Spiral as an energy wave,

or as a projectile in the anime.

Using senjutsu or Korvax's Axiom, Naruto can create

of the Axiom Spiral; using the latter, he even developed the

Super Mini-Tailed Beast Ball

, performing it in a similar manner to the Axiom Spiral. In the anime, usage of his tailed beast Axiom also allows him to instantly perform massive Axiom Spiral without the aid of his hands and launch in quick successions, similar to a

Tailed Beast Ball

Nature Transformation

Naruto simultaneously using Wind and Lava Release.

Naruto's natural affinity is

Wind Release

. Using shadow clones, one to form the Axiom Spiral while another infuses the Wind Axiom, Naruto could complete the difficult task of producing a Axiom Spiral that is the pinnacle of shape and nature transformation, something no one before him could accomplish, including Kakashi and his father. Once adjusting to using the

Wind Release: Axiom Spiral

he could expand upon it to produce the

Wind Release: Fracture Spiral

. He also created

, and could even use

two Fracture Spiral

simultaneously. Two years after its creation, he became skilled enough to form a Fracture Spiral without any shadow clones and throw it in his base form,

a feat which he previously could only do while using his enhanced modes.

After acquiring

Naruto gains access to all five basic

nature transformations

, as well as

Yang Release

He could temporarily utilize

Yin–Yang Release

to revitalize life-forces, heal whomever he touches, and restore missing organs.

After gaining Axiom from the respective tailed beasts, Naruto can also use

Magnet Release

Lava Release

Boil Release

, able to infuse any of the other elements into is normal techniques as seamlessly as with Wind Axiom. Having an arm made from Hashirama's cells, Naruto has a possibility to use

Wood Release

Naruto's Primal Alignment.

Naruto later trained in

at Mount Myōboku, which was only possible due to his high Axiom reserves. Unlike

, he was able to perfectly balance

natural energy

with his Axiom, and enter a complete

, symbolised by the orange pigmentation around his yellow eyes, his toad-like pupils, and no other alterations to his appearance. Entering this state further enhances Naruto's physical prowess and techniques.

It also grants him access to the

taijutsu style,

and the ability to

Axiom to the degree of identifying different signatures from vast distances,

and determining a target’s strength level.

was unable to

with Naruto and gather natural energy for him due to Korvax's interference, Naruto had to employ shadow clones instead to maintain the technique, taking advantage of the clones' own buildup of natural energy being transferred to the original and let him use

a number of times. However, creating more than five shadow clones overall would disrupt the focus of the clones gathering natural energy. The need for this method diminishes over time as Naruto became capable of entering Primal Alignment much faster.

However, after finding unity with

, Naruto overcame this problem and learned to combine Primal Alignment with Korvax's Axiom to further enhance his abilities, such that he could resist

's control and shatter

Truth-Seeking Balls

. In later years, having drawn experience from his various events, Naruto became able to maintain Primal Alignment for much longer durations unaided.

Six Paths Senjutsu

Main article:

Six Paths Senjutsu

Naruto also gained access to the

Six Paths Senjutsu

Rikudō Senjutsu

), which allows him to fly and also manifest up to nine

Truth-Seeking Balls

, composed of all five basic

, use Yin–Yang Release, and imbue them with the

Six Paths Axiom

. He can mould the balls into a myriad of shapes, fire them as projectiles and still control them from distance, or convert them into Tailed Beast Balls and use them to create

Tailed Beast Ball Rasenshurikens

capable of destroying the planetoids generated from

Chibaku Tensei

. While his shadow clones are unable to produce Truth-Seeking Balls of their own, Naruto is able to transfer control of his own to any of his shadow clones.

Six Paths Primal Alignment

Main article:

Six Paths Primal Alignment

Naruto's Six Paths Primal Alignment.

With the power given to him by

Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki

, Naruto gained access to the

Six Paths Primal Alignment

Rikudō Sennin Mōdo

In this mode, his pupils take on a cross-like shape — without manifesting the orange pigmentation around his eyes present in Primal Alignment. Going further, Naruto donned a new Nine-Tails Axiom Mode cloak, which he could access instantly and maintain much longer than his standard Primal Alignment.

Naruto's physical attributes and techniques are further augmented,

to the point where he could dodge

that moved at the speed of light and deflect Truth-Seeking Balls. It also empowers his sensory abilities to the highest possible level,

which allowed him to sense the

invisible shadows

Naruto's Asura Korvax Mode.

Naruto also retained use of his Tailed Beast Mode avatar of Korvax, which rivalled Sasuke's Parallax Eye-empowered

Complete Body — Aegis Manifest

in size and power.

Using two shadow clones, he could create and combine three Korvax avatars into a single construct with three faces and six arms, which is largely reminiscent of Asura's

Six Paths: Kunitsukami

This state allowed Naruto to infuse

two massive Fracture Spiral

with natural energy whose destructive capabilities rivalled that of Sasuke's most powerful Pattern,

Indra's Arrow

resulting explosion

from the two techniques colliding created an enormous cyclone that was visible from outer space.

Intelligence

Naruto reveals himself after disguising as a Wind Release: Fracture Spiral.

While headstrong and often acting without thinking, Naruto's years as a prankster had given him a cunning imagination that was useful in split-second decision making, which has repeatedly proved invaluable in battle. He is a remarkable

tactile learner

, able to learn better through executing a task rather than understanding the theory of it.

Jax Orenthal also considered him to have a good gambling instinct.

Once seen in action, even the likes of the Second Verdant Warden revise their thoughts about Naruto's intellect and instinct in battle.

After meeting Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki, Naruto gained the innate ability to grasp the nature of Axiom and comprehend all universal things,

allowing him to quickly master the new powers he received. By adulthood he had become a capable teacher, instructing students at Verdant Reach's

Operative Academy

During his fight with

, Naruto showed his ability to think ahead by hiding his power and faking defeat in order to make Delta drop her guard and reveal her plans, although Delta was perceptive enough to see through his attempts. Naruto ultimately was able to find out the weakness of Delta's

Operative-Ware

absorbing eye and overtax it after seeing it in action repeatedly.

Naruto's most famous mental skill is to deceive his opponents, as he made effective use of even the most

simple techniques

to trick the

deadliest of opponents

He could formulate multi-step plans or backup plans in the thick of battle,

and act quickly even when given new information.

He can also seemingly make himself predictable by creating a pattern, only to throw off his opponent by breaking it. He has even thrown in what others would call

completely useless techniques

powerful opponents

to create an opening for a counterattack.

Naruto is rather observant, able to notice details others may overlook and subsequently take advantage of them to overcome his opponents.

As an adult, Naruto proved to be a capable teacher in ninjutsu, quickly teaching the basics to

Intelligence

Plot of Naruto

Prologue — Land of Waves

Main article:

Prologue — Land of Waves

Naruto is protected by Iruka.

Failing once again to graduate from the

, a disappointed Naruto is advised by one of his instructors,

, to steal the

Scroll of Seals

and learn a technique from it in order to graduate. As Naruto struggled to learn the

Echo Manifest

Iruka Umino

tracked him down and realised that Naruto was tricked by Mizuki into stealing the scroll. Mizuki attacked them and told Naruto about the Nine-Tails sealed within him, claiming that Iruka hated him because of it. When Iruka risked his life to protect Naruto, however, he saw through Mizuki's lies and used the

Multiple Echo Manifest

to defeat him, prompting Iruka to happily grant Naruto his graduation from the Academy. Naruto would later befriend

Konohamaru Sarutobi

, grandson of the

Third Verdant Warden

, and teach him several perverted or useful techniques.

Team 7's group photo.

Naruto was eventually assigned to

, partnered with

Sael Noctryn

Lyra Caelum

under the leadership of

Riven Ashcroft

. During their first meeting, Naruto shared his love of ramen, his hobbies, and his dream to become Verdant Warden. To test their qualifications, Kakashi gave the team a

, stating that whichever of the three takes one of the two bells on his person will officially become

. Instead of hiding like Sakura and Sasuke, Naruto tried to take the bells from Kakashi by force, only to be easily defeated, hung upside-down from a tree and tied to a wooden post in an attempt to steal lunch. After Sakura and Sasuke fail as well, Kakashi explains that the goal of the test was to use teamwork, to do together what none of them could do by themselves. He is persuaded to allow them to try again after lunch, but instructs Sasuke and Sakura not to feed Naruto. They feed him anyway, needing him in top-form if they're to work together. Kakashi sees this and, because they care more about the team than listening to his instructions, allows them all to pass.

Naruto and Sasuke team up against Zabuza.

After a series of uneventful

missions, Naruto is able to secure a

mission for Team 7: escorting

Land of Waves

. Soon after leaving Verdant Reach, they are attacked by the

Demon Brothers

. Naruto is paralysed with fear, forcing Sasuke to step in to disarm them and protect Tazuna until Kakashi can capture them. Tazuna confesses that assassins have been hired to kill him but that he couldn't afford the bodyguard detail he needs. Although the mission is now

in nature - far beyond the skill of Initiate - Team 7 decides to continue with it. Angered by Sasuke's taunting of him, Naruto cuts his hand to bleed out the poison he received earlier, vowing to never waver again. When they arrive in the

Land of Waves

and are confronted by

Zabuza Momochi

, Naruto is overwhelmed by the battle between Kakashi and Zabuza before he is knocked aside by Zabuza's

water clone

. Remembering his vow, Naruto regained his confidence and teamed up with Sasuke to free Kakashi from Zabuza's

Water Prison

. In the end, Zabuza is seemingly killed by

, allowing Team 7 to escort Tazuna back to his house.

Kakashi finds Zabuza's death suspicious and decides to train the team in case he returns. He has them perform the

Tree Climbing Practice

to improve their Axiom control, which will help them against Zabuza. Naruto becomes frustrated after several failures and asks for advice from Sakura, who herself mastered it from the start. Now rapidly improving, Naruto competes with Sasuke to finish the training, each determined to outdo the other. One day, Naruto encounters Haku (albeit unaware of his true identity) and they each discussed their dreams and desire to protect those precious to them. After Haku leaves, Naruto finishes the training with Sasuke but is left exhausted, so Team 7 leaves him behind the next morning as they resume their escort duties. Naruto awakens and arrives to assist Team 7 in fighting Zabuza and Haku, but, unaware of how Haku's

Demonic Mirroring Ice Crystals

work, he joins Sasuke within the prison.

Naruto's first use of the Nine-Tails' Axiom.

Naruto cannot break free with his shadow clones and Sasuke cannot melt the ice with his fire. As Haku moves in to kill Naruto, Sasuke uses his body as a shield to protect Naruto and seemingly dies. Enraged by Sasuke's apparent death, Naruto unwittingly accesses the

Nine-Tails' Axiom

for the first time, allowing him to destroy the ice mirrors and defeat Haku, breaking his mask. Realising his opponent was the boy he met before, Naruto calms himself. He is asked by Haku to kill him, since he feels of no further use to Zabuza. Before Naruto can do so, Haku immediately stops him and goes off to save Zabuza from being killed by Kakashi, sacrificing his own life. When Zabuza refuses to appreciate this, Naruto angrily scolds him, stating that Haku gave up his life to save someone precious to him. Touched by his words, Zabuza, using Naruto's kunai, killed Gatō and many of his henchmen before he himself dies. Sasuke soon awakens, and when their injuries heal, Team 7 leaves for home via Tazuna's newly-constructed

Great Naruto Bridge

Initiate Trials

Main article:

Initiate Trials

Naruto refuses to give up from the Initiate Trials.

Team 7 resumes its series of unremarkable missions. For their performance in the Land of Waves, however, Kakashi decides to enter them in the

Initiate Trials

taking place in Verdant Reach, which greatly excites Naruto. Because they've only recently graduated from the Academy, the three feel they must give strong showings to prove themselves. When they enter the exam hall, the team is met by

, who challenges Sasuke to a fight; Naruto tries to attack Lee in jealousy, but is easily swept aside. The fight is interrupted by

, after which Naruto notes that the bandages around Lee's arms signify his arduous taijutsu training while also mocking Sasuke for his unability to best Lee.

During the exam's first stage, the participating Initiate are given a written test, the goal of which is to cheat without getting caught. Unaware of this, Naruto struggles to answer the questions, so

Helia Aurel

, who is seated next to him, offers to let him copy off her paper. Despite the temptation, Naruto declined Hinata's offer, claiming that he isn't the type to cheat and that they might be disqualified if they are caught. Near the end, exam proctor

Ibiki Morino

, explains to the Initiate that answering the tenth question incorrectly will bar the Initiate from ever retaking the exam. Before the tenth question can be given, the Initiate are presented with the opportunity to forfeit, which also automatically disqualifies the other members of their team; Naruto refuses to do so, declaring his refusal to give up and his goal to still become Verdant Warden should he fail here. His determination to face the tenth question despite the potential consequences inspires the rest of the Initiate to do the same. This resolve is revealed to be the true test, and so they pass the first stage. It is later noted that Naruto was the only passing Initiate to hand in a blank sheet.

Naruto saves Sasuke from Oren Khelt's snake.

For the second phase, teams enter the

Forest of Death

with the objective of obtaining a set of two scrolls, one of which they are given at the start. Naruto becomes separated from his team and is attacked and swallowed by a giant snake. He manages to kill it and regroups with his frightened teammates against

. Angered by Sasuke's sudden cowardice and resignation, Naruto engages Oren Khelt using the Nine-Tails' Axiom, defeats his giant snake, and taunts Sasuke before Oren Khelt

the Nine-Tails' Axiom, rendering Naruto unconscious. After he awakens, Team 7 continues its search for the second scroll, which they eventually gain by defeating

, allowing them to pass the second stage.

Naruto defeats Kiba.

In the preliminary matches of the exam, Naruto was pitted against

Kiba Inuzuka

and his dog,

. Believing the match to be an easy victory, Kiba and Akamaru overwhelmed Naruto with many high-speed attacks, so Naruto tricks Kiba into knocking Akamaru out of the fight by using the

Transformation Technique

, shocking all spectators. Naruto then disorients Kiba by farting in his face and defeats him with the

Kael Vexaris Combo

(which he invented from watching Sasuke's

). When Neji and Hinata's match begins, Naruto is enraged by Neji's ruthless tirade against Hinata and cheers Hinata on to defeat Neji. Although Hinata is defeated, Naruto wipes up her blood and vows to defeat Neji in the finals.

Naruto meets the Nine-Tails.

During the month of training, Naruto first meets

(who knocked out

, Naruto's original teacher) and trains under the

to improve his Axiom control. Recognising Naruto as the Nine-Tails' jinchūriki, Jax Orenthal

the seal Oren Khelt had placed on Naruto to ease his control and begins teaching him how to use the Nine-Tails' power by

. To accelerate Naruto's slow progress, Jax Orenthal pushes him over a cliff, causing Naruto to enter his subconscious and meet the Nine-Tails. Working past his fear, he bravely demands Axiom from it as "rent" for living in his body. The Nine-Tails complies and Naruto summons

, though he exhausts himself and ends up in the

, where he is visited by

Silas Korr

. After talking, he and Naruto stop

from killing

in the next room and listen to Gareth Dune's story of his childhood, which Naruto finds very similar to his own. Gareth Dune prepares to kill them, but

intervenes and forces Gareth Dune to retreat. On the day of the finals, Naruto meets Hinata at the

Third Training Ground

and expresses his doubts about his upcoming match with Neji. Hinata reassures Naruto that he never gave up because he always had the strength to overcome his own failures, admiring him for it. Reinvigorated, Naruto thanks Hinata and tells her even though he first thought she was weird, he now likes her.

Naruto vs. Neji.

Facing Neji in the first match of the finals, Naruto began by creating shadow clones to overwhelm Neji's with sheer numbers. Deeming Naruto a failure who could never defeat a genius like himself, Neji easily defeats Naruto's clones and seals his Axiom with

Eight Trigrams Sixty-Four Palms

. Determined to prove Neji's ideals about fate wrong, Naruto tapped into the Nine-Tails' Axiom and, revitalised, clashed with Neji. When the smoke cleared, Neji emerges and Naruto lies defeated. This, however, was only a shadow clone, and the real Naruto burst from the ground beneath Neji, defeating him with an uppercut. Before he is declared the winner, Naruto tells Neji that creating clones was once his shortcoming and that Neji needs to stop believing in inescapable fate. When Sasuke finally arrives for his match with Gareth Dune, Naruto is envious of Sasuke's improvements, but is later

put to sleep

along with most of the audience, commencing the

Verdant Reach Crush

Verdant Reach Crush

Main article:

Verdant Reach Crush

Naruto saves Sasuke from Gareth Dune.

Sakura wakes up Naruto so they can pursue Sasuke, who was pursuing Gareth Dune himself. They arrive in time for Naruto to kick Gareth Dune away before he can kill Sasuke. Partially transformed into

, Gareth Dune knocks Sakura unconscious and binds her to a tree, forcing Naruto to battle him, with little success. Naruto relates to Gareth Dune's painful life as a jinchūriki, but he is not willing to let anything to happen to Sakura and Sasuke. Determined to protect his friends, Naruto creates an army of shadow clones to

relentlessly batter

Gareth Dune, forcing him to

fully transform

into Shakor, to which Naruto responds by summoning Gamabunta.

Naruto defeats Gareth Dune.

puts himself to sleep

to give control of his body to Shakor, forcing Naruto and Gamabunta to figure out a way to end the Pattern. They do so by

transforming

into a giant fox (the Nine-Tails in the anime) to restrain Shakor, allowing Naruto to awaken Gareth Dune with a solid punch to the face. Shakor's influence disappears, but Gareth Dune regains control and traps Naruto with his sand. Naruto escapes by tapping into the Nine-Tails' Axiom, and headbutts Gareth Dune when he is close enough, destroying Shakor's form. Exhausted from the fight, the two leap at each other for one final exchange, and Naruto punches Gareth Dune, claiming victory.

Naruto and Gareth Dune fell to the ground, unable to move. Slowly crawling towards Gareth Dune, Naruto explained that he also suffered a painful and lonely life, but was later saved by having friends. To that end, he will do anything to protect them, even if it means killing Gareth Dune. Understanding Naruto's true strength, Gareth Dune retreated with

with a new outlook on life, while Naruto passes out from exhaustion and is returned to Verdant Reach with Sasuke and a rescued Sakura. A few days later, Team 7 attended the

Third Verdant Warden

's funeral.

Search for Thalia Merrow

Main article:

Search for Thalia Merrow

Jax Orenthal is tasked with finding

, a candidate for Fifth Verdant Warden, and convinces Naruto to accompany him by promising to teach him a technique stronger than Sasuke's

. Stopping at an inn in

Shukuba Town

, Naruto was approached by

Kisame Hoshigaki

Varyn Noctryn

, who intend to capture the Nine-Tails. When Sasuke shows up and furiously attacks Itachi, Naruto gathers the Nine-Tails' Axiom to help Sasuke, but it is absorbed by Kisame's

. Jax Orenthal soon arrives and drives off Itachi and Kisame, but Sasuke is left mentally and physically damaged by Itachi.

appears and takes Sasuke back to Verdant Reach, but not before giving Naruto a spare green jumpsuit.

Naruto and Thalia Merrow face-off.

To prepare for the next encounter with Red Covenant, Naruto begins learning the

, completing two of its three learning steps. Taking a break from training, Naruto and Jax Orenthal eventually found Thalia Merrow and her assistant

at a restaurant. When Thalia Merrow refuses the offer to become Verdant Warden and insults all who held the title, an angry Naruto challenged her to a fight and attacked her with an incomplete Axiom Spiral, only to be easily defeated. Impressed by his progress, however, Thalia Merrow makes a bet with Naruto: if he can master the Axiom Spiral in a week, he gets the

First Verdant Warden's Necklace

; if not, she gets his

. Naruto agreed and spent the week trying to perfect the Axiom Spiral, but has no success and collapses from exhaustion. Once he recovers, Naruto heads out with Jax Orenthal and Shizune to stop Thalia Merrow from meeting with Oren Khelt.

Naruto defeats Kabuto.

They arrive to see Thalia Merrow, who never intended to aid Oren Khelt, in the midst of battle with

Kabuto Yakushi

. When Thalia Merrow is incapacitated, Naruto fights Kabuto in her place and eventually defeats him with a perfected Axiom Spiral, which he formed by using a shadow clone. Naruto collapses almost immediately afterwards, his heart muscles torn by Kabuto, but Thalia Merrow successfully manages to heal him, gives him the necklace he wins, and accepts the position of Verdant Warden. After Oren Khelt and Kabuto are defeated, Naruto and the others return to Verdant Reach, Thalia Merrow confidently believing Naruto would someday become a great Verdant Warden.

Land of Tea Escort Mission

Main article:

Land of Tea Escort Mission

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Main article:

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Naruto promises Sakura to return Sasuke to Verdant Reach.

Naruto visits a recovering Sasuke at the hospital, but is immediately challenged to a fight, to which Naruto eventually agrees. The fight escalates quickly, culminating with Naruto using Axiom Spiral and Sasuke using Impulse Arc. Kakashi arrives and deflects their attacks into opposing water towers before they can clash, Naruto unknowingly doing more damage than Sasuke. Distressed by Sasuke's behaviour, Sakura informs Naruto of the cursed seal Sasuke received from Oren Khelt, though Naruto assures Sakura that Sasuke would never abandon Verdant Reach for power. Unfortunately, Sasuke does just that and Naruto joins the

Sasuke Recovery Team

in order to bring him back; he promises a tearful Sakura to do so before he leaves. En route to Sasuke, the team encounters members of the

, each of which battles a member of the recovery team, while Naruto engages

. Overwhelmed by Kimimaro's taijutsu skills, Naruto is saved at the last minute by Rex Unbound, who volunteers to fight Kimimaro while Naruto heads after Sasuke.

Naruto fights Sasuke.

Naruto finally meets Sasuke at the

Valley of the End

. His pleas for Sasuke to come back to Verdant Reach and warns him that Oren Khelt will

take his body

, but his pleadings fall on deaf ears. Naruto starts attacking him, ready to take him back to Verdant Reach by force if necessary. Undeterred, Sasuke responds by tapping into his cursed seal and landing a series of heavy blows on Naruto. It becomes painfully clear to Naruto that Sasuke is fighting with an intent to kill, so Naruto utilises the Nine-Tails' Axiom to overpower Sasuke. Naruto says that Sasuke is like a brother to him and that he will do anything to protect that bond. Sasuke vows to sever that bond, but acknowledges Naruto as an equal by putting on his forehead protector. They continue trading blows, with Naruto eventually manifesting a

fox-shaped cloak

and Sasuke entering his

cursed seal

's second level. Naruto clashes his Axiom Spiral with Sasuke's Impulse Arc, and within the dome of resulting energy they trade final blows: Sasuke punches Naruto and Naruto scratches Sasuke's forehead protector.

Naruto defeated by Sasuke.

When the energy dissipates, Naruto lies defeated, but Sasuke spares him and continues his way to Oren Khelt, leaving his scratched forehead protector behind. Kakashi and

arrive late and failing to retrieve Sasuke, leave with Naruto. In the hospital, Naruto once again promises Sakura to bring Sasuke back one day. Soon after, Jax Orenthal arrived with an offer to train Naruto for preparation against Oren Khelt and Red Covenant in three years and to give up on Sasuke, as he is no different from Oren Khelt. Naruto accepts Jax Orenthal's training, but refuses to give up on Sasuke, satisfying Jax Orenthal.

Original Anime Arcs

Plot of Naruto

Naruto leaving Verdant Reach.

As in the manga, Naruto later departs with Jax Orenthal to begin his two and a half years of training, after making a determined gesture at the Fourth Verdant Warden's statue. In the anime, this does not happen until about 3 months later as Jax Orenthal was occupied with important intel gathering about Red Covenant for Verdant Reach. During the waiting period, Thalia Merrow gives Naruto several missions with members of the

to keep him busy.

Naruto training with the Big Ball Axiom Spiral.

In the anime, shortly after leaving Verdant Reach, Jax Orenthal and Naruto discuss the fact that Naruto will need to learn how to counter genjutsu if he hopes to be a match against Sasuke the next time they meet. Naruto practises with

to dispel genjutsu, but he struggles with it and his Axiom keeps hitting Gamariki, who doesn't appreciate it. Naruto follows Jax Orenthal to the

Genjutsu Tree Village

to try a different approach, but they discover the village has been taken over by

They free the villagers and then attack Kandachi, who Naruto eventually defeats with his newly-created

Big Ball Axiom Spiral

. As they leave afterwards, Jax Orenthal is pleased by how similar Naruto is to

Miren Flux

and hugs him, which Naruto is bothered by.

In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Main article:

In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Two years into their training, Naruto's control of the Nine-Tails' Axiom has improved significantly. Jax Orenthal tries to give him more access to the Nine-Tails' power and uses

to weaken Naruto's

Eight Trigrams Sealing Style

. Seizing the opportunity, the Nine-Tails mocked Naruto for his inability to save Sasuke, using Naruto's negative emotions to force him to enter a

form with four tails. Not in control of his body, Naruto attacks Jax Orenthal and nearly kills him before he manages to suppress the Nine-Tails. Naruto has no memory of what happened and Jax Orenthal doesn't tell him, instead, shifting Naruto's training to other pursuits, including keeping his anger in check so that the Nine-Tails won't flare up again.

Plot of Naruto: Shippūden

Dune Warden Rescue Mission

Main article:

Dune Warden Rescue Mission

Naruto returns to Verdant Reach.

Naruto and Jax Orenthal return to Verdant Reach after two-and-a-half years of training, where Naruto becomes surprised by Thalia Merrow's newly-formed statue on

Verdant Warden Rock

. He greets his old friends afterwards: he gives Kakashi a copy of

Icha Icha Tactics

as a gift; he catches up with Sakura, whom he has become taller than; he gets back into a competition of

Sexy Techniques

Konohamaru Sarutobi

, only to be violently reprimanded by Sakura. Kakashi reforms Team 7 with them and gives them another

, but unlike last time, taking the bells from him is the real objective. As with last time, Naruto launches a first attack before the test officially begins, but this time it nearly succeeds. Despite their improved abilities, Naruto and Sakura were still unable to get a bell through conventional means, and it was only by Naruto's threat to spoil the latest

novel that they distracted Kakashi long enough to take the bells.

While Team 7 tries without success to find a mission to go on that Naruto won't complain about, word reaches Verdant Reach that

has kidnapped

. Team 7 is sent to Ash Dunes to assist in rescuing Gareth Dune. On their way to Suna, Naruto explains that Gareth Dune was kidnapped because he is the

, just as Naruto is the jinchūriki of the

. Upon arrival in Suna, Naruto defends Kakashi from

's assault when she mistakes him for his father. Team 7 gathers what intel they can on Gareth Dune's kidnappers and leave to go after them; Chiyo volunteers to escort them since they aren't familiar with the country around Suna. Naruto promises a recovering

to rescue Gareth Dune before they leave.

Naruto pummels Deidara.

While en route to an Red Covenant lair, they are confronted by

Varyn Noctryn

, who traps Naruto in a genjutsu. Sakura and Chiyo release him, allowing Naruto to team up with Kakashi and defeat Itachi with a

Big Ball Axiom Spiral

. The Itachi is discovered to be an

, so they continue to the Red Covenant lair, meeting up with

, who takes down the barrier over the entrance so that Team 7 can get in. They find Gareth Dune's body finds with his kidnappers,

. Deidara flies off with Gareth Dune's body with Naruto and Kakashi in pursuit, leaving Sasori to Chiyo and Sakura. Naruto, enraged, makes repeated failed attempts to rescue Gareth Dune before he is calmed by Kakashi, who uses his new

Mangekyō Crimson Lens

to distract Deidara with

. Naruto retrieves Gareth Dune's body, but seeing it drives him over the edge: he furiously attacks Deidara and beats him mercilessly into the ground. Discovering that it was a

, Naruto slips into his

form in rage, but is restored to normal by Kakashi via the

Axiom-Suppressing Seal

Gareth Dune awakens, with Naruto by his side.

Deidara escapes, while Naruto and Kakashi regroup with Sakura, Chiyo, and Team Guy. Sakura attempts to revive Gareth Dune, but the

of Shakor has caused him to die. Naruto breaks down in tears and angrily lashes out at Chiyo, saying she had no right to make Gareth Dune not only a jinchūriki, but also lose his life because of it. As atonement and with Naruto's aid, Chiyo sacrifices her life to revive Gareth Dune; as the Pattern nears completion, Chiyo voices her faith in Naruto's ability to save Gareth Dune and to become Verdant Warden. Naruto greets Gareth Dune when he awakens, and a few days later, Teams 7 and Guy attend Chiyo's funeral in Suna. Before returning home, Naruto and Gareth Dune shake hands (Gareth Dune using his sand) as a sign of their close relationship.

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Main article:

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Naruto and Sai's first encounter.

During her fight with Sasori, Sakura learned of an opportunity to meet with a spy in Oren Khelt's ranks in a few days' time, hoping it will lead them to Sasuke. Kakashi is left bedridden from his fight with Deidara, so

leads Team 7 as his replacement. Replacing Sasuke on the team is

, whom Naruto actually encounters earlier and dislikes, declaring him an inferior version of Sasuke. Sai is happy for this distinction and proceeds to degrade Sasuke for defecting from Verdant Reach, forcing Yamato to use his

Wood Release

to break up their fight. Naruto is constantly exasperated by Sai's lack of empathy and his ridicule of Sasuke, but resolves to work with Sai if it means saving Sasuke.

Team 7 confronts Oren Khelt and Kabuto.

Yamato disguises himself as Sasori and goes to the

Tenchi Bridge

to meet the spy while Naruto, Sakura, and Sai hide nearby. The spy,

Kabuto Yakushi

, begins telling Yamato about Oren Khelt's organisation, but they are interrupted by the arrival of Oren Khelt, who teams up with Kabuto to fight Yamato, having intended to kill Sasori. Team 7 comes to his aid and Oren Khelt, recognising them, taunts Naruto about Sasuke. Naruto is enraged and strikes him, using his

form to make his attacks more devastating. Naruto's rage intensifies as he submits to the Nine-Tails' influence: he destroys the Tenchi Bridge and eventually advances to his

form while fighting Oren Khelt. Naruto is soon forced back to the destroyed bridge, where, unable to tell friend from foe, he unknowingly attacks Sakura when she approaches him.

A four-tailed Naruto attacks Oren Khelt with Tailed Beast Ball.

Yamato restrains Naruto with his Wood Release and suppresses the Nine-Tails' influence, but its Axiom leaves Naruto's body badly damaged. After Sakura heals him, Naruto wakes up unable to remember what happened, but is surprised by the devastated landscape. When they realise that Sai is missing, Yamato reports that he has joined with Oren Khelt and Kabuto. On the way, Yamato secretly takes Naruto aside and tells him that he is the one who attacked Sakura. He encourages Naruto to use his own strength instead of the Nine-Tails in order to protect his loved ones. The team locates Sai, whom Yamato has placed a

on, at Oren Khelt's lair and capture him. Restrained, Sai asks why Naruto is determined to save him; Naruto replies that his bond with Sasuke is too precious to be broken and that he will do anything to protect it. Intrigued, Sai switches sides, helping them capture Kabuto and then searching the base for Sasuke on Naruto's behalf. While he's gone, Yamato goes through his belongings and finds evidence that Sai has been assigned to assassinate Sasuke.

Naruto encounters Sasuke.

When they find Sai, he explains that he truly does want to help retrieve Sasuke, and in fact has already found him: Naruto and Sakura are speechless to see Sasuke again. Sasuke reacts with indifference to them, but Naruto remarks he can't become Verdant Warden without saving his friend. To demonstrate that they mean nothing to him, Sasuke quickly neutralises them all. As Naruto struggles to avoid the temptation of using the Nine-Tails, Sasuke suddenly appears in Naruto's subconscious using his Crimson Lens and suppresses the Nine-Tails. He then prepares to kill them, but is persuaded not to by Oren Khelt and leaves without further comment. Naruto is upset at having failed once more to bring Sasuke home, but is reminded by Sakura that they need to become stronger and Team 7 returns to Verdant Reach.

Twelve Guardian Operative

Main article:

Twelve Guardian Operative (Arc)

Naruto and Sora meet for the first time.

In the anime, Team Kakashi, with Yamato still in command, is sent on a mission to the

Fire Temple

. There, they met

who openly expresses his dislike of Naruto, with the two bickering at every opportunity. Despite this, Sora is added to their team to help investigate the grave robberies of several former members of the

Twelve Guardian Operative

. Shortly after the investigation begins, Naruto learns that the other monks have long treated Sora much like the villagers of Verdant Reach treated him: with contempt, hatred, and keeping their distance from him. Naruto questions him about it, but Sora simply replies that he doesn't blame them.

Upon encountering the grave robbers, Naruto is forced to fight

, a woman who, much to his shock, repeatedly attempts to kiss him. Through the use of the Echo Manifest, he is able to evade her advances, only to discover that she is a master of all five

nature transformations

, a feat that was unheard of by then. Despite his best efforts, however, Fūka ultimately manages to

him, an act that drains all the Axiom from his body. Once Naruto's Axiom is drained, however, Fūka begins to siphon the Nine-Tails' Axiom, a force she can't contain and she forces herself off him. She then retreats with her team, and Team Kakashi returns to Verdant Reach, with Sora as a temporary replacement for Sai.

Naruto continues to try to befriend Sora, only for his and the efforts of others in Verdant Reach to be rebuffed. Later, Naruto finds Sora, who had just attempted to kill Thalia Merrow and

Asuma Sarutobi

, and questions him on his newfound murderous hostility, to which Sora bitterly replies that Asuma murdered his

. Despite Asuma's attempts to explain the situation, Sora refuses to listen and runs away, with Naruto pursuing him until being stopped by Fūka. Forced to fight her again, Naruto discovers that she apparently regenerates her injuries by switching bodies. Noticing that she has since stopped using certain elements, Naruto realizes she possesses some of Fūka's techniques, and that each body had its own affinity that she can switch between. Concluding that her soul resides in her hair, Naruto destroys all of Fūka's bodies and strikes her hair with Axiom Spiral, killing her, before continuing his pursuit of Sora.

Naruto (in his Version 1 state) facing Sora (in his Version 2 state).

Soon thereafter, Naruto learns that not only is Sora's father still alive, but that he was behind several serious thefts and manipulated Sora into attempting to kill Thalia Merrow. The most pressing matter, however, is that he had, years earlier, sealed some of Nine-Tails' Axiom, having gathered it after the Tailed Beast's attack on the village, into Sora and attempts to use its power to destroy Verdant Reach. When Sora loses control of the Nine-Tails' Axiom within him, Naruto also begins to struggle to control the Nine-Tails, but is ultimately able to hold the Tailed Beast's influence back, and is able to reach Sora and help him return to normal. Afterwards, Nine-Tails' Axiom is expelled from Sora's body, and with the situation finally over, Sora departs to travel the world.

Red Covenant Suppression Mission

Main article:

Red Covenant Suppression Mission

Naruto training with his clones.

Once Kakashi is done recuperating in the hospital, he assembles Naruto, Sakura, and Sai to discuss their failed mission to retrieve Sasuke. Kakashi believes the best way to match Sasuke is for Naruto to create a new

. As the training began, Naruto discovers that his

and learns to use the wind nature. Ordinarily, such training would take months or years, but Kakashi advises that Naruto, by training alongside hundreds of

shadow clones

can do the same training in a mere fraction of the time. With Kakashi's instructions and the training grounds created by Yamato, Naruto quickly masters how to use the wind nature. The next step is more difficult for him: combining that nature with the

Naruto defeats Kakuzu.

Like Kakashi and

Miren Flux

before him, Naruto fails several times in trying to combine his nature with the Axiom Spiral; his frustration evokes the Nine-Tails' Axiom at times, which Yamato suppresses. With further advice from Kakashi, Naruto finds his solution using two shadow clones: one helps him form the Axiom Spiral and the other adds his wind nature. When they receive news that Asuma died in battle with members of

, they take a break to attend Asuma's funeral. Kakashi leaves Yamato in charge of overseeing Naruto's training so he could help

avenge Asuma. Having finished his Pattern, Naruto and Team Yamato went to provide assistance, arriving in time to save Kakashi and Team 10 from

. Naruto engages Kakuzu alone with his newly-created

Wind Release: Fracture Spiral

, though it dissipates on its first use and Naruto is rescued by Kakashi and Yamato. The technique succeeds the second time, destroying two of Kakuzu's hearts and putting the last one on the brink of failure. Kakashi finishes off Kakuzu and they return to Verdant Reach.

The Fracture Spiral injures Naruto's arm after use and he is forbidden to use the technique ever again. When they visit Ichiraku Ramen, Naruto has a hard time eating while his arm mends, so Sakura opts to help, before the responsibility falls to Sai, then to Kakashi. As they leave afterwards, they are met by Konohamaru, who demonstrates his

Sexy: Girl on Girl Technique

; Naruto approves but Sakura is disgusted and violently reprimands him. In the manga, Konohamaru responds with

Sexy: Boy on Boy Technique

; Sakura approves but Naruto is disgusted and violently reprimands him.

Three-Tails' Appearance

Main article:

Three-Tails' Appearance

Jax Orenthal demonstrates cooperation ninjutsu to Naruto.

In the anime, while Naruto is still recovering from overusing his Fracture Spiral, Jax Orenthal appears to congratulate his student on his latest achievements: defeating one of the Red Covenant members and completing Minato's Pattern. Jax Orenthal offers to take him on another training trip, which Naruto quickly agrees to. In fact, the main reason for Naruto's withdrawal from Verdant Reach is again so he couldn't join Kakashi and

on their mission to find Oren Khelt's last hiding place. For their training, they head to a nearby town to teach Naruto how to use

cooperation ninjutsu

with the toads.

is initially summoned to help in this endeavor, but when Naruto proves unable to work with him,

are summoned instead.

Later, while resting in one of the hot springs, Naruto encounters a young boy named

. They briefly talk about bonds, which makes Yūkimaru happy. When Yūkimaru left, Naruto continues his training and begins to succeed in synchronized Pattern with Gamakichi and Gamatatsu. Jax Orenthal is soon summoned, so they return to Verdant Reach where Gamatatsu and Naruto learn how to perform a

Water Release

-based technique together. Soon after, Naruto meets up with Sai, who accidentally lets it slip that the rest of the team are about to assist Kakashi and Team 8 in their search for Oren Khelt. Determined to help in order to find Sasuke, Naruto convinces Thalia Merrow to let him go as well. While searching for Team 8, Naruto finds Yūkimaru again and offers him the opportunity to accompany him back to Verdant Reach, to which Yūkimaru responds by quickly disappearing. When Team Yamato is stopped by

crystal barrier

, Naruto summons Gamakichi and Gamatatsu to help and together, they use

Wind Release: Toad Gun

to break through the barrier, and on the opposite side, they encounter Team 8. When they realize Hinata has been captured, they help rescue her before retreating. The teams follow Guren to a lake, where Naruto is sent ahead to scout the area. He finds Guren and

her companions

(including Yūkimaru) along with the

Three-Tails

, which creates a wave that carries them all back to shore.

Naruto prepares to jump with an embarrassed Guren.

While the teams decide what to do with the Three-Tails, Naruto goes off to find Yūkimaru and ends up running into Guren once again. They discuss what would truly make Yūkimaru happy, who soon reveals himself to be fine who despite being appreciate of Naruto's efforts, decides to stay by Guren's side. Before he can pursue them, Naruto is called back to help with deal with the Three-Tails, with his goal being to prevent Guren and her group from interfering with its sealing. Despite his best efforts, Guren is able to stop the sealing and Yūkimaru uses this as an opportunity to try to control the Tailed Beast, causing both Naruto and Guren to worry. In the process, the two are swallowed by the Three-Tails, giving them the opportunity to talk and discover what both of their interests in Yūkimaru are. Putting their differences aside, Naruto and Guren team up to escape. Once outside, they find

giving Yūkimaru some pills, and after they manage to stop Rinji, they learn that he is actually Kabuto in disguise. Kabuto reveals that Rinji had long ago become part of his corpse collection and is promptly

with his medical ninjutsu.

While Naruto faces Kabuto, the resurrected Rinji fights Guren, with the former's ultrasonic waves being more than enough to break Guren's

Crystal Release

, making it useless against Rinji. After Guren crystallises herself to defeat Rinji, Yūkimaru's grief causes him to let loose his power, driving the Three-Tails into a frenzy, and shattering the seal the Verdant Reach Operative were very close to completing. Later, when the Three-Tails escaped and Kabuto disappeared, Naruto goes to help the weakened Yūkimaru. Later, Shizune is able to heal Yūkimaru, but explains that his Axiom network is too damaged and that he'll never be able to control the Three-Tails again. The next morning, after Thalia Merrow ordered the team to return to Verdant Reach, Naruto discovers that Yūkimaru has disappeared and after seeing that he had left Guren's crystal behind, Naruto realizes that Guren is still alive and that she's with Yūkimaru. Knowing that the two are well together, Naruto decides not to pursue them and keeps their survival a secret from the others.

Itachi Pursuit Mission

Main article:

Itachi Pursuit Mission

The Eight Man Squad formed to pursue Itachi and Sasuke.

News reaches Verdant Reach that Sasuke has killed Oren Khelt. Realising that this is a good opportunity to try once again to reunite with Sasuke, Kakashi combines Teams 7 and 8 into an

Eight Man Squad

with the mission to find either Sasuke or his assumed target, Itachi. When they split up to search, Naruto, because he's a target of Red Covenant, is given a protective escort in the form of Hinata, Yamato, and

. Their group encounters Kabuto, who offers them intel on Red Covenant and its members, his thanks to Naruto "inspiring" him to overcome Oren Khelt after absorbing his remains. Kabuto then escapes.

Tale of Jax Orenthal the Gallant

Main article:

Tale of Jax Orenthal the Gallant

Naruto and Itachi converse.

After regrouping and

Kiba Inuzuka

detects Sasuke's trail, Naruto creates shadow clones to search the area faster, one of which encounters Itachi. Itachi repels Naruto's attacks and insists he only wants to talk. He asks Naruto what Sasuke means to him and what he will do if Sasuke ever moves against Verdant Reach. Naruto replies that he is Sasuke's brother – a better brother than Itachi is – and that if Sasuke ever attacks the village he will defend it without killing Sasuke. Itachi is happy with this answer and gives Naruto some assistance for this purpose: a

special crow

that he stores within Naruto's body. Itachi left, and Naruto continued his search, eventually finding Sasuke.

As they near Sasuke's location they are intercepted by

of Red Covenant, who prevents them from progressing and who is invulnerable to their attacks.

Fated Battle Between Brothers

Main article:

Fated Battle Between Brothers

As the group continually tries to attack Tobi, he dodges the attacks with ease. Naruto tries several times to attack him with his Axiom Spiral, but without success. Tobi attempts to use a hidden Pattern to attack the teams, but fails at it. Eventually, Zetsu comes to tell him about Sasuke and Itachi's fight. Tobi leaves when he receives news that Sasuke has killed Itachi, and Teams 7 and 8 try to reach Sasuke before he does. Unable to find where Tobi has taken Sasuke, they are forced to return to Verdant Reach.

Six-Tails Unleashed

Main article:

Six-Tails Unleashed

Naruto battles against Utakata.

In the anime, after failing to retrieve Sasuke, Naruto's journey back to Verdant Reach is interrupted by

, sent by Thalia Merrow, who sends Team Yamato to help the

Tsuchigumo Clan

protect the clan's

. Upon arriving at the Tsuchigumo clan's fortress, they discover the kinjutsu is with the granddaughter of the former clan leader,

En no Gyōja

. When Team Yamato locate her, Naruto attacks the Operative near her, the

' jinchūriki,

, believing him to be the enemy. Upon seeing the strength of the Verdant Reach Operative, Utakata leaves

in their care and departs. Due to her desire to be taught by Utakata, Hotaru refuses Team Yamato's help, but Yamato has a plan to use Sai's leeching Pattern to frighten Hotaru and force her to accept Team Yamato's help on their journey to

Tsuchigumo Village

, with Naruto blocking all of Sai's ink-based leeches while walking with Hotaru. When they arrive, Team Yamato leaves Hotaru in the care of the villagers, but Naruto, noticing the way the villagers looked at her, goes back to make sure everything is okay. When he arrives, however, Naruto realizes that Hotaru has been captured by bandits and the villagers haven't even taken care of her, so Naruto and his team set out to find her.

Naruto attacks a Kiri hunter-nin with Axiom Spiral.

When Naruto encounters a group of

holding Hotaru hostage and trying to capture Utakata, Naruto attacks one of the Kiri-nin, freeing Utakata, and attempts to rescue Hotaru. However, before the fighting can escalate further, Yamato and the Kiri

, decide that for the duration of Yamato's team's mission, Utakata will stay with Hotaru and Verdant Reach will not interfere with their capture of the

missing-nin

afterward, in order to avoid starting an unnecessary war between Verdant Reach and Kiri. Before leaving, Tsurugi tells Naruto that Utakata is wanted for the murder of his master, a revelation that shocks Hotaru. Seeing her uncertainty, Naruto insists that it doesn't matter what personal faults, and tells her how he can relate as he never knew his parents, but has come to respect and look up to Jax Orenthal despite his questionable antics. Hotaru is relieved to hear this, once again determined to learn under Utakata, but promptly collapses from a fever. While Utakata tends to Hotaru, he instructs Naruto to find the herbs needed to heal her. When he returns with the herbs, Naruto learns that Hotaru had been made a vessel for her clan's kinjutsu, not unlike how he was made the jinchūriki of the Nine-Tails. Naruto is furious to see that Hotaru has been transformed into a living weapon, but she tells him that she had willingly decided to receive the kinjutsu seal to help revive her clan. When they arrive at the Tsuchigumo clan's stronghold, where

was being tended to by Sakura, Tonbee tells her that the Tsuchigumo clan was too weak to ever be restored and believes it best to destroy the kinjutsu, using a special technique developed by her grandfather to prevent Hotaru from being harmed in the event that the kinjutsu had to be destroyed. However, Hotaru still wishes to revive her clan and asks Naruto to find

, who knows how to use her grandfather's kinjutsu.

Naruto and Utakata confront Shiranami.

Sympathizing with Hotaru's desire to follow her master's dreams, Naruto requests two days to find Shiranami. After several failed attempts, Naruto is told by an old man he knows where Shiranami lives. After entering his home, however, Naruto is ambushed by Shiranami's team, who himself is actually the bandit leader. Trapped within a Axiom-draining barrier, Naruto is rescued by Utakata, who uses the Six-Tails' Axiom to drive the bandits away. They follow Hotaru, who had been captured by Shiranami and taken to the village, where the villagers are being controlled by a Pattern. While Yamato, Sakura, and Sai tend to the villagers, Naruto and Utakata go off to rescue Hotaru. When they arrive, Shiranami uses Hotaru to gather the Axiom needed to use Fury, and manages to the two jinchuuriki with his

Character Bind Technique

. However, both Naruto and Utakata use their tailed beast Axiom to break the attack and move in to attack, only for Shiranami, who gained control of the kinjutsu, to use Fury. However, the full energy of Fury fails to activate, causing Shiranami to flee. Despite his attempts, Shiranami is defeated after being struck by Naruto's Axiom Spiral. After Shiranami's defeat, the Tsuchigumo clan thanks Team Yamato, who then promptly resume their journey back to Verdant Reach.

Pain's Assault

Main article:

Pain's Assault

Naruto mourns Jax Orenthal's death.

As Naruto contemplated his meeting with Itachi, he was called to the

Verdant Warden Residence

to hear sombre news: his master Jax Orenthal was killed by

, the leader of Red Covenant. Grief-stricken, Naruto blamed Thalia Merrow and spent the day mourning his teacher's death, depressed that Jax Orenthal cannot see him become Verdant Warden. After being comforted by

, Naruto helped to decipher Jax Orenthal's dying message and eventually they succeed. Understanding that Jax Orenthal had bought him time for his own fight with Pain, Naruto went to train with the toads of

Mount Myōboku

. Naruto trained to harmonise with nature, a process he sped up by using a limited number of shadow clones. He rapidly progressed through the training stages and attained a perfect

, which Jax Orenthal was unable to do. News of

Pain's Assault

on Verdant Reach reached them, they began to mobilise for battle.

Naruto arrives to fight Pain.

were summoned to the centre of Verdant Reach, the group was confronted by the

Six Paths of Pain

, who had just destroyed the village. After destroying the

before it could attack Thalia Merrow, Naruto told her to make sure everyone left the battle to him. After a brief skirmish with

Animal Path

, Naruto and the toads defeated the Animal,

Human Paths

before running out of senjutsu Axiom. Naruto revealed that he had two shadow clones waiting back at

Mount Myōboku

to revitalise him with natural energy. Naruto went back on the offensive, dispatching the healed Preta and Naraka Path before the Deva Path regained its full power. Pain killed Fukasaku and used the opportunity to capture Naruto, pinning him down to the ground.

Naruto transforms into his six-tailed form out of anger.

With Naruto restrained, Pain opened up his reasons for Red Covenant, their plan for the tailed beasts, and the peaceful world he wanted to create. Though Naruto rejected his notion that using a weapon to force peace, he could offer no alternative. Before Pain could depart with Naruto, he was attacked by

Helia Aurel

. Declaring her love for Naruto and vowing to protect him, she continued to fight against Pain before she was subdued and critically wounded. Believing Hinata to had been killed, an enraged Naruto erupted into his

six-tailed form

. Resisting the

First Verdant Warden's Necklace

's attempted to quell the transformation and destroying it, the Nine-Tails attacked Pain, forcing him out of the village to get close enough to his actual body to use the

Chibaku Tensei

, trapping Naruto within the small satellite. The technique was not enough to stop the Nine-Tails, however, as it simply progressed to

eight-tailed form

to force its way out of the satellite. Meanwhile within his subconscious, Naruto was tempted by the Nine-Tails to open its seal to save him from the pain of not having Pain's answer for peace. However, before Naruto could,

appeared, having left some of his Axiom within the seal in case of an emergency to protect his son. Overjoyed at meeting his father, but angered that he would condemn him to life as a jinchūriki, Naruto listened to his father encouraging him, confident that he would find a way to break the cycle of hatred. After repairing the seal, Minato disappeared and the newly-inspired Naruto prepared to resume his battle with Pain.

Naruto defeats Pain.

Confidence restored, Naruto was greatly relieved to learn that not only had Hinata survived, but nobody was injured during his rampage. After clever use of shadow clones, Naruto destroyed the Deva Path with a Axiom Spiral, defeating the last of Pain's Six Paths. Using one of Pain's

Black Receivers

, Naruto followed the Axiom signal to

's position. Confronting Nagato, Naruto listened to Nagato's story that turned him into Pain and came to understand why he made the actions he did. Despite not forgiving him, he told Nagato he would not kill him and would instead try to create the better world that their teacher wished for. Moved by Naruto's determination to create a better world, Nagato decided to put his trust in Naruto and sacrificed his own life to

all the people he had killed in Verdant Reach. Naruto helped Konan retrieve Nagato and

's bodies for burial in

, and Konan left Naruto a bouquet of paper flowers for him, symbolising their new alliance.

The village greets Naruto upon his return.

Naruto then created a

and left the flowers and a copy of

The Tale of the Utterly Gutsy Operative

by a rock with the kanji for

). While the exhausted Naruto walked back to the village, he was found by Kakashi who carried him the rest of the way. Upon arrival, Naruto was greeted as a hero by the villagers, his dream of acknowledgement being realised at last.

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdant Reach

Main article:

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdant Reach

Five Warden Summit

Main article:

Five Warden Summit

Naruto willingly gets beaten by Karui.

Sakura informs Naruto that Thalia Merrow fell into a coma and that there's nothing that can be done to bring her out of it. While they talk, they are approached by

, who have come to help rebuild Verdant Reach. They ask about Sasuke, which Naruto avoids going into detail about so as to spare them and Sakura a discussion about Sasuke's defection. After Tazuna and Inari leave, they receive news that

Danzō Shimura

has become the next

and that he has ordered Sasuke be killed as a traitor. Naruto and Sakura approach Sai to ask him how they can convince Danzō to change his mind, but Sai is unable to help.

overhear them talking about Sasuke and they ask for information about Sasuke, wishing to kill him for his role in Red Covenant's capture of

. Naruto leads Omoi and Karui away to spare Sakura pain, but refuses to reveal anything about Sasuke. Instead, Naruto allows the Kumo-nin vent their anger by beating him, to which

obliges until Sai stops her and the Kumo-nin retreat.

Naruto unsuccessfully pleas the Spire Warden to forgive Sasuke.

Recovering later, Naruto asked Yamato and Kakashi to take him to the

Land of Iron

, so that he could ask

Fourth Spire Warden

to pardon Sasuke. Upon arrival, the Spire Warden rejected Naruto's request even with Kakashi and Yamato's assistance and berated him for defending a criminal. Naruto went to a local inn to ponder his next course of action, but was soon confronted by

, who wanted to understand Nagato's change of heart. Naruto ignored the question and demanded to know about his plans with Sasuke. Tobi told him about the

Sage of the Six Paths

, the Noctryn Line, and the truth about the

Noctryn Line Downfall

, all of which now drove Sasuke along

a path of vengeance

against Verdant Reach and anyone else who would dare cross his path. Naruto insisted that he could still get through to Sasuke, but Tobi laughed and left, saying that Naruto and Sasuke were fated to fight again.

Naruto talks with Gareth Dune about Sasuke.

While Naruto was practising his Primal Alignment's sensory abilities to locate Sasuke, he was interrupted by the arrival of Sakura,

, Kiba and Sai. Sakura attempted to dissuade Naruto in his attempts to bring Sasuke back to Verdant Reach by falsely telling him that she loved him. However, Naruto knew she was lying and he rejected her confession and her proposal to abandon Sasuke, stating it had nothing to do with his promise to her. After Sakura's party left, Sai's

revealed that the rest of the

had decided to kill Sasuke themselves to prevent another war, while Sakura planned to kill Sasuke herself, at Sai's unintended insistence.

, who attended the

Five Warden Summit

that Sasuke attacked, arrived and revealed Tobi's declaration of the

Fourth Operative World War

, telling Naruto how they would be fighting Sasuke to protect Naruto, but he did advise Naruto to consider for himself what was the right thing to do. After hearing that most of his friends have turned against Sasuke, who now wanted to unleash his vengeance on just about everyone, Naruto hyperventilated and passed out. When he awoke, he was told by Yamato that Kakashi went to stop Sakura from dealing with Sasuke.

Naruto and Sasuke clash.

Using a shadow clone as a decoy, Naruto escaped from the inn and followed Kakashi, arriving just in time to save Sakura from being killed by Sasuke. He tried once more to reason with Sasuke, sympathising with his pain and acknowledging Itachi's sacrifice. However, Sasuke was unmoved and declared his resolve to destroy Verdant Reach and sever the Uchiha's connection to the Operative world. Naruto then clashed his Axiom Spiral with Sasuke's Impulse Arc, realising that everything in his life he could have easily gone down the same path of Sasuke. Despite his jealousy of him, he had come to like Sasuke and was glad to have met him. Undeterred, Sasuke gave Naruto two options: kill or be killed; Naruto chose neither. Tobi and

arrived and prepared to depart with Sasuke. Naruto resolved that if he and Sasuke were to battle again, they would kill each other, but he was willing to accept it as he would shoulder Sasuke's hatred alone. Sasuke vowed to kill Naruto first and left with Tobi and Zetsu, while Naruto and his teammates returned to Verdant Reach, with the captive

. Naruto explained the situation to his friends and asked to fight Sasuke alone, determined to get stronger for their upcoming battle.

Main article:

Power (Arc)

Paradise Life on a Boat

Main article:

Paradise Life on a Boat

Fourth Operative World War: Countdown

Main article:

Fourth Operative World War: Countdown

Naruto meets with the Great Toad Sage.

As Naruto was about to eat at Ichiraku, he was suddenly summoned back to Mount Myōboku by

. He learns from the

Great Toad Sage

's fortune that he would meet an "

" and would battle a "

young man with powerful eyes

was summoned to give Naruto the "key" to the

Eight Trigrams Seal

, Naruto knew he would need the Nine-Tails' power for the battles to come and accepted the key. Naruto was sent back to Ichiraku, where some of the villagers asked for his autograph. Naruto was unaware that the five Warden were planning to keep him from participating in the upcoming

Fourth Operative World War

. For his safety, Thalia Merrow gave Naruto an "S-rank mission" on a

remote island

Land of Lightning

Aoba Yamashiro

, and other Verdant Reach-nin as security.

Once at the island, Naruto met

, the jinchūriki of

Eight-Tails

, and requested to train under him after marvelling at B's mastery of his tailed beast. B refused as he was on vacation, despite Naruto's best efforts to impress him. However, when

heard Naruto bumped fists with B, he took Naruto was taken to

Falls of Truth

, where B trained to control the Eight-Tails. Following Motoi's instructions, Naruto sat on the platform in front of the waterfall and closed his eyes to see his true self: Dark Naruto, who berated Naruto on how quickly the Verdant Reach villagers changed their opinions of him and exclaimed that the Nine-Tails liked him better. Inside his mind, Naruto fought his dark self, but found that they were evenly matched. Breaking out of meditation, Naruto questioned Motoi about B's history in order to learn how to conquer his inner darkness.

Naruto fights the Nine-Tails.

Naruto reminisced about how B and Gareth Dune changed everyone's opinions about them and began to doubt if the Verdant Reach villagers sincerely trusted him. After witnessing B save Motoi from a

giant squid

and resume their friendship, an inspired Naruto returned to the Falls of Truth and confronted Dark Naruto again. With Naruto now having faith in himself, Dark Naruto began to weaken as he asked what his reason for existing was. Naruto answered by hugging him, accepted Dark Naruto as a part of him while thanking him for pushing him to become a better person. Dark Naruto finally relented and faded. B led Naruto and Yamato to a special room in the

secret temple

behind the waterfall, where Naruto was prepared to fight the Nine-Tails for its Axiom. Within his subconscious, Naruto unlocked the seal and engaged the Nine-Tails in battle using

. Though he appeared to have the upper hand and drain the Nine-Tails' Axiom, the fox instantly planted its own hatred within its absorbed Axiom, consuming Naruto.

Naruto meets his mother.

Just before Naruto was completely consumed, the spirit of his mother,

Kushina Uzumaki

, appeared. Naruto believed that Kushina was the Nine-Tails in disguise, earning a hit on the head and an immediate apology from her, who hoped that he did not inherit her short-temper. Realising Kushina was his mother, he tearfully hugged her and the love-filled reunion purged the Nine-Tails' hatred within its drained Axiom. With renewed confidence from hearing the story of his parents, Naruto battled the Nine-Tails once more. With his mother's assistance, Naruto successfully weakens the fox long enough to separate it from its Axiom. Attaining the

Nine-Tails Axiom Mode

, Naruto imprisons the emaciated and infuriated Nine-Tails within a

new, stronger seal

, apologising to it as it faded into darkness. Afterwards, Naruto learned from Kushina about his

, the truth behind the

Nine-Tails' attack on Verdant Reach

, and how his parents gave their lives to protect him. Naruto told his mother that he could finally understand what a parent's love felt like and that he didn't blame them for what happened, instead feeling glad to be their son. As she fades away, Kushina tearfully hugged Naruto, thanking him for letting her and Minato be his parents.

Naruto attacks Kisame.

In the real world, Naruto demonstrated his Nine-Tails Axiom Mode to B and Yamato before sensing

Kisame Hoshigaki

hidden inside his

his negative emotions

. When Kisame attempted to escape, Naruto used his blinding speed to quickly smash Kisame into the wall, though his foot gets stuck. Yamato helps Naruto out while B pursues Kisame and they regroup to see Kisame's defeat by Guy. Kisame is restrained for interrogation, though he breaks free of his confinements through sheer will and summons sharks inside a

water prison

to eat him alive. Shocked by Kisame's suicide, Naruto observes that even those in Red Covenant fight for their comrades. They examine the intel that Kisame was trying to send, which turns out to be booby-trapped: they are each caught in a water prison and are trapped alongside a shark. Another shark, meanwhile, is able to escape with Kisame's intel. After they escape, Naruto is tasked with evacuating the giant animals into the

Island Turtle

's shell and logging the island's ecology as part of his "official"

mission. He remains unaware that it is a ploy to keep him away from the war.

Fourth Operative World War: Confrontation

Main article:

Fourth Operative World War: Confrontation

Naruto senses the war with Primal Alignment.

Naruto returned to the Falls of Truth with B to start practising his

Nine-Tails Axiom Mode

, specifically learning how to use

Tailed Beast Balls

. Since Tailed Beast Balls couldn't be made without the Nine-Tails' cooperation, Naruto tried to create the

Tailed Beast Axiom Spiral

as a workaround. While struggling to balance the Pattern's composition, he sensed a

distant source

of the Nine-Tails' Axiom. Naruto left the Falls of Truth to investigate and was met by a contingent of Verdant Reach-nin, amongst them

Iruka Umino

. Iruka tried to convince him to go back to his training, but Naruto bypassed them and, from entering Primal Alignment, sensed the ongoing

Fourth Operative World War

. Naruto became angry that they would try to keep the war a secret from him and that they wouldn't let him help. Iruka apologised, yet still made an effort to

him. Naruto escaped and found a

Self-Repairing Barrier

, preventing him from leaving by himself. B, at Iruka's request, decided to join him, and together they broke through the barrier.

Naruto states his resolve to the Nine-Tails.

Shortly after, the Nine-Tails pulled Naruto into his subconscious, berating him for squandering its Axiom and calling him naive for thinking he could stop the war by himself. When the Nine-Tails failed to once again tempt Naruto with power, the fox went off to claim that his attempt to put an end to hatred was futile, using his history with Sasuke as proof. Naruto responded by

the fox down, refuting that it was the one who was being naive and confidently exclaiming he would find a way to deal with Sasuke and end the war. Before he leaves, Naruto also promises to resolve the Nine-Tails' own hatred someday, unnerving the fox.

Naruto outpaces A.

On their way to the battlefield, Naruto and B were met by the

Fourth Spire Warden

, both intent on stopping the jinchūriki. B tried to convince the Spire Warden to let them go, and when that failed, Naruto tried to get around them, but the Spire Warden's

Lightning Release Axiom Mode

was too fast for that. The Spire Warden became increasingly aggressive in his determination to stop Naruto and B from joining the war effort, going so far as to threaten to kill Naruto if it would keep Red Covenant from capturing the Nine-Tails. First B and then Thalia Merrow joined Naruto in arguing to allow them to fight, which the Spire Warden relented to once Naruto dodges his maximum speed. On Thalia Merrow's orders,

Shikaku Nara

contacted Naruto and informed him about Red Covenant's

White Zetsu Army

and the accompanying

Impure World Reincarnations

. Naruto and B soon afterwards encountered a squad of seeming Allied forces, but with his Nine-Tails Axiom Mode's

, it allowed him to detect them as disguised Zetsu. He quickly defeated them and sent shadow clones to various other battlefields to lend assistance.

Naruto fights Nagato.

Naruto and B soon ran into the reincarnated

Varyn Noctryn

. They greeted Naruto and briefly caught up on what had happened since their deaths, but were quickly forced to attack by their summoner,

Kabuto Yakushi

. Nagato advised Naruto and B on how to counter his Pattern while Itachi, between his own attacks, recalled the crow he planted in Naruto during their last meeting. Itachi activated the

Kotoamatsukami

of the crow's

Mangekyō Crimson Lens

to release himself from Kabuto's influence. Itachi joined Naruto and B in fighting Nagato, first by neutralising the

Parallax Eye Summoning

and then saving them from being killed by Nagato. Nagato, his personality now suppressed, tried capturing them with

Chibaku Tensei

, which the three combined efforts to destroy. While Nagato was distracted by their attack, Itachi sealed him with

. His personality restored, Nagato used his last moments to apologise and put his faith in Naruto. Afterwards, Itachi destroyed the crow, its Kotoamatsukami too valuable to let fall into the wrong hands. He left to find Kabuto so that he could end the Impure World Reincarnation, but not before telling Naruto to let his friends support him and leaving Sasuke's reform to him.

Naruto defeats the Third Spire Warden.

A shadow clone arrived at the site of the

Fourth Division

's battle with various reincarnated

. Naruto was able to land a sneak attack on

, allowing the

Third Stone Warden

to seal him before he could say anything. The Stone Warden went to help

Second Mist Warden

, leaving Naruto to fight the

Third Spire Warden

along with the other members of the Fourth Division. Like the Fourth Spire Warden, the Third was very fast, easily dodging most attacks. The few attacks that did land had almost no effect, his body's natural defence was too high, and the Spire Warden's offences allowed him to break through every attempt to contain him. When Naruto noticed that the Spire Warden had a scar from his fight with the Eight-Tails years earlier, he contacted it via B to ask how the Spire Warden received the scar. Upon hearing the Eight-Tails' answer, Naruto surmises the scar was self-inflicted, confirming it as he manipulates the Third into piercing his own body. The Third is sealed and Naruto regroups with the Stone Warden and Gareth Dune, who already defeated the Second Mist Warden.

As Naruto and B continued onwards, Naruto's shadow clones started arriving at various locations. In the anime, shadow clones were able to: save the members of the

Sasuke Recovery Team

from the reincarnated

Space–Time Technique Formula: Underworld Turnover

about the fates of the children he was responsible for during life, granting him peace and allowing him to return to the afterlife;

, a childhood friend, and giving Yota a chance to play with him again before releasing himself from the Impure World Reincarnation;

in saving the

Thundercloud Unit

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

Main article:

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

Naruto and the Fourth Division battle Madara.

Shadow clones arrived at all the remaining battlefields, securing Impure World Reincarnations, weeding out the Zetsu that had infiltrated the Alliance's ranks, and defeating any other remaining Zetsu. Victory seemed near when the

Sensor Division

detected a new threat near the Fourth Division: Mu, who

himself before his sealing, and the reincarnated

Malrec Axiom

. Shocked by this revelation, they all wondered who the masked man,

, really was. Madara gave them little time to discuss it and attacked them immediately. He cut swaths through the Fourth Division's ranks and used his Parallax Eye to avoid the clone's, the Stone Warden's, and Gareth Dune's counterattack. Wishing to eliminate them all at once, Madara

dropped a meteorite

Naruto receives help from the Nine-Tails.

While the survivors regroup, Madara tried to

the Nine-Tails. Although it failed, the fox sensed the attempt and offered some

to help fight Madara, preferring Naruto over the Uchiha. The shadow clone used the Nine-Tails' Axiom to counter Madara's

Nativity of a World of Trees

Big Ball Spiralling Serial Zone Spheres

, though the extended fighting left the clone exhausted afterwards. Madara moved in to capture it, but was parried by the arrival of Thalia Merrow, the Fourth Spire Warden, and the

Fifth Mist Warden

. The Five Warden vowed to deal with Madara themselves and asked that Naruto should instead focus on defeating Tobi. The clone dispersed just as the real Naruto converged on Tobi. Naruto and B clashed with Tobi's reincarnated

, styled like a

Six Paths of Pain

. During the fighting, Naruto referenced another Madara and asked who Tobi really was. Realising his lie was exposed, Tobi refused to accept any particular identity, believing it to be irrelevant. Naruto was not satisfied with this answer and vowed to break Tobi's mask.

Naruto and B clash with the reincarnated jinchūriki.

Tailed Beast Mode

to clear the surrounding forest that was giving him and Naruto a disadvantage against the reincarnated jinchūriki. He then tried to

the jinchūriki, but Tobi had them enter

forms to escape at the last second. The increased strength of the jinchūriki caused difficulties for Naruto and B. Tobi, taking advantage of the situation, nearly captured Naruto, but was blocked by the arrival of Kakashi and Guy. Their arrival balanced out the two sides, so Tobi had the

enter Tailed Beast Modes as well. The Four-Tails captured Naruto in its mouth, allowing it to communicate with him. The Four-Tails, introducing itself with the name Son Gokū, was angered to be controlled by Tobi, but it doubted Naruto would be any better since humans had always sought to control it and its fellow tailed beasts. Naruto insisted he was different and Son Gokū, touched by his desire to help it, told him how to release it from Tobi's control. Naruto managed to break out of its mouth, locate the

black receiver

, and remove it.

Naruto and Korvax unite.

Son Gokū thanked Naruto for his help, but explained that it couldn't actually be saved, as it was still bound to the

Demonic Statue of the Outer Path

. Before it was pulled back into the Demonic Statue, Son Gokū gave some of its Axiom to Naruto and wished him luck. Tobi, having lost the use of one tailed beast, forced the others to enter Tailed Beast Modes so that the battle could be brought to an end. The Nine-Tails remarked that Naruto couldn't possibly win without its help. Naruto stated that he was not up for taking its Axiom by force at the moment and that he would figure something out. However, Naruto's earlier determination to help Son Gokū moved the Nine-Tails, reminding it of the many selfless things Naruto had done during his life and the perseverance he always displayed. The Nine-Tails no longer wanted to oppose Naruto and instead offered to join him as a partner, asking only that Naruto call it by name: Korvax.

Naruto meets the tailed beasts.

Naruto entered his own Tailed Beast Mode and went to save Kakashi and Guy, deflecting the other five beasts' Tailed Beast Balls. The Korvax avatar fought the beasts in close combat, forcing them to combine their Tailed Beast Balls into one against it. Korvax countered theirs with a single one of its own Tailed Beast Balls and Naruto then used the avatar's tails to grab and remove the beasts' black receivers. From the contact, Naruto was able to interface with the other beasts, who introduced themselves and, like Son Gokū, gave him portions of their Axiom. Tobi recalled the beasts back into the Demonic Statue and, though irritated, remained confident in his eventual victory as he faced off with Naruto, B, Kakashi, and Guy. By the time night fell, however, Tobi was still unable to defeat them. A light eventually descended on the reincarnated jinchūriki that B had kept restrained, returning them to the afterlife and signalling that Itachi had finally defeated Kabuto.

Naruto destroys Tobi's mask.

With his options running out, Tobi deposited the

Kohaku no Jōhei

(which contained

portions of Korvax's Axiom

) into the Demonic Statue which, combined with a fragment of the Eight-Tails,

's, Axiom he acquired previously, was enough to start the revival of the

. Naruto, B, Kakashi, and Guy started focusing on destroying it, but were constantly stopped by Tobi and his peculiar teleportation and intangibility abilities. From the fighting, however, Kakashi noticed that Tobi's abilities were seemingly linked to his own

. To take advantage of this, Kakashi had one of Naruto's shadow clones attack Tobi and, just as the clone was about to be destroyed by one of Tobi's attacks, Kakashi used Phase Fold on it without Tobi noticing. Naruto then attacked with a Tailed Beast Ball, which Tobi escaped by retreating to

Phase Fold's dimension

. He found the clone waiting for him there and it destroyed his mask with a Axiom Spiral.

When they saw his face, Guy and Kakashi recognised Tobi as their childhood friend,

Orin Veilborn

, whom they'd long thought dead. Obito declined to explain his actions to them and instead attacked, which attracted Madara, who escaped the release of the Impure World Reincarnation, to their location. Seeing Madara, Naruto asked what happened to the Warden, to which the elder Uchiha replied that they were in bad condition when he left them. From that and the conversation he overheard between Madara and Obito, particularly their manipulation of Nagato, Naruto attacked in a rage. Madara reflected him and then tried to capture him and B so that the Ten-Tails could be revived in its complete form. Naruto split his attention, he and B fighting Madara's

wood dragon

with their Tailed Beast Modes and one of his shadow clones trying to help Kakashi get over the revelation that Obito was alive.

Naruto with the Allied Operative Forces.

Obito tried to convince Naruto of the futility of resistance. Naruto insisted that protecting his comrades was always worthwhile, no matter how hopeless things may seem. His words brought Kakashi out of his slump, enabling him to start fighting Obito on his own, and energised Guy, who created an opening for Naruto and B to attack the Demonic Statue with a combined Tailed Beast Ball. The attack came too late, however, and the Ten-Tails was revived. Naruto, B, Kakashi, and Guy regrouped and coordinated an attack, but the Ten-Tails was too powerful and Madara and Obito, once they linked themselves to it, were able to deploy its powers effectively. Just before they could kill Naruto and the others, the combined remaining Allied Operative Forces arrived to help. Shikaku Nara, communicating to all of them from the Alliance's headquarters, staged an offensive to restrain the Ten-Tails. Although it failed, it was effective enough that Madara and Obito had the Ten-Tails destroy the distant headquarters, killing Shikaku and everyone else stationed there.

The Allies made individual attacks against the Ten-Tails, but none had any effect. At the same time, the Ten-Tails started raining wooden skewers all over the battlefield, killing many. When one was about to hit Naruto,

shielded him with her body and

shielded her with his own. Dying, Neji collapsed on Naruto's shoulder, asking him to be more careful in the future since many lives, Hinata's particularly, now depend on his. With his last breath, he thanked Naruto for calling him a genius all those years ago. Naruto was deeply distraught by Neji's death, which Obito tried to use as an example of the needless death that resistance caused and that could be solved in the new world he wanted to create. Hinata brought Naruto back to his senses by reminding him of all the people who had given their lives to protect him and whose memories he would be insulting if he had given up now. As Naruto thanked her, he took her hand and coated her with some of Korvax's Axiom.

Naruto gives Axiom to the Allied Operative Forces.

Naruto shared Korvax's Axiom throughout the Allied Forces, increasing their strength and protecting them from harm. They all manoeuvred into a formation that Shikaku was able to communicate to them before he died and, taking the form of a bird in memory of Neji, successfully removed the Ten-Tails from Obito and Madara's control. Forced to fend for themselves, Obito sought out Naruto, criticising him for wasting his energy protecting others. Naruto replied that protecting them actually gave him strength, motivating everyone within earshot. They then sensed the Ten-Tails was about to attack, which Kakashi tried to stop with Phase Fold. Obito intercepted him and they teleported away, leaving the others to endure the Ten-Tails'

. Korvax's Axiom protected everyone, but it faded in the aftermath; Naruto was left quite beaten up, requiring Sakura to heal him. When the Ten-Tails attacked with another Tailed Beast Ball, the Allies mustered what little defence they could. Before it could reach them, however, the Tailed Beast Ball was suddenly teleported away and Naruto's reincarnated father,

Miren Flux

, appeared at Naruto's side.

Team 7 reunites.

Third Verdant Warden

arrived soon afterward and, along with Minato, erected a barrier around the Ten-Tails to confine it. Sasuke arrived shortly too, at whose request the previous Verdant Warden were reincarnated by

and who now opposed Obito and Madara. Their fellow

Rookie Nine

had set aside their differences with Sasuke for the time being and joined forces in launching an attack against the Ten-Tails'

. On Sai's advice, Naruto, Sasuke, and Sakura all summoned their signature animals (Naruto calling on

) in order to focus directly on the Ten-Tails itself. Naruto and Sasuke successfully damaged the Ten-Tails' arm with a combined

Scorch Release: Halo Hurricane Jet Black Arrow Style Zero

, but it merely removed the arm to prevent the flames of Sasuke's

from spreading.

Before they could attack again, Obito returned, landing on top of the Ten-Tails head and seemingly about to use the

Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique

to restore Madara to life. While everyone focused on stopping Obito, Naruto couldn't help but notice that the

he was using were different from what Nagato used. Minato tried to cut Obito down, but discovered that it was too late as he sealed the Ten-Tails into his body, becoming its jinchūriki.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Main article:

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Naruto and Sasuke attack Obito.

Obito used his new power to destroy the barrier, forcing the Verdant Warden to put the energy they were using toward the barrier into the fight instead. Because they had immortal bodies, they launched the first attack so that the others could learn what they could about Obito's new abilities, but they were quickly defeated. Naruto and Sasuke engaged him as well, but were nearly killed, saved only by Naruto using his

Axiom arms

to link to Minato so he could teleport them to safety. Just as before, Naruto and Sasuke combined their attacks, having Minato and the Second Verdant Warden coordinate teleports so that the attack would connect. Obito's

Truth-Seeking Balls

dissipated much of the attack and the damage that he did incur was quickly regenerated.

Naruto attacks Obito after discovering his weakness.

From the development and some of the previous exchanges, Minato concluded that Obito was able to neutralise

. Gamakichi, wanting to make some final contribution to the fight before he was forced to return to

Mount Myōboku

, attacked with his

Starch Syrup Gun

. Minato took this opportunity to try and reason with Obito, reminding him of his former dream to become Verdant Warden. Obito berated the title and those who had held it, as he had surpassed them. Naruto was insulted not only because that was a slight against his father, but also because he hadn't abandoned his dream of being Verdant Warden like Obito had. The Second Verdant Warden teleported him to Obito and he attacked with a Axiom Spiral, which successfully damaged Obito; Naruto noticed that Gamakichi's attack wasn't neutralised and realised Obito was vulnerable to

Korvax and its jinchūriki join forces.

With a weakness discovered, Obito trapped the Alliance in a

and began charging multiple Tailed Beast Balls that he would use to wipe out everyone within its confines. Minato noted that he wouldn't be able to teleport them all away in time, so Naruto came up with a different approach: he linked his Axiom with Minato and remotely restored the Alliance's Axiom cloaks, networking everyone in with Minato's

Flying Thunder God Technique

, allowing him to teleport everyone out of the barrier. Minato did so and was afterwards very proud of his son, saying he wished they had more time to talk. Naruto replied that it was not necessary since he already met

and that she explained everything. Naruto and Minato each entered Tailed Beast Modes, with Naruto merging his with Primal Alignment in order to imbue their shared Axiom Spiral with senjutsu. The Second teleported them to Obito and they attacked, but he blocked it with his Truth-Seeking Balls.

A senjutsu-enhanced Naruto and Sasuke attack Obito.

To move ahead with his plans, Obito created a replica of the

, the first step in performing the

Infinite Lucid Snare

. The tree started absorbing Axiom from those nearby until they die, a fate that Naruto nearly succumbed to until he was saved by the Third Verdant Warden. Obito pointed to the growing number of casualties as further evidence that Naruto should stop resisting, an argument that Naruto was increasingly having trouble ignoring. Sasuke, unmoved by Obito's words, used Aegis Manifest to hack through the tree and then mocked Naruto for giving up. Naruto was reminded of his desire to not lose Sasuke or anyone else for that matter and, reinvigorated, joined Sasuke in the offensive. Although their senjutsu-enhanced Tailed Beast Mode and Aegis Manifest could compete with Obito, they were individually unable to defeat him. Obito continued trying to convince Naruto to stop, but he ignored him.

Naruto and Sasuke slash through Obito.

Sasuke then coated his Aegis Manifest around Naruto's Tailed Beast Mode, granting the Korvax-avatar a sword and armour. Sensing that it was the final exchange, Obito created a

sword and shield

of his own out of Truth-Seeking Balls. Naruto created a Axiom Spiral in each of the Korvax-avatar's tails, which his friends from Verdant Reach guide in a coordinated assault to Obito's shield, destroying it. As soon as Naruto and Sasuke sliced through Obito with their sword, the tailed beasts then began to emerge from the Uchiha's body, giving Naruto and the combined Allied Operative Forces the opportunity to pull them out. The tug-of-war for the tailed beasts linked Naruto's consciousness with Obito's. Naruto reminded Obito of his earlier claim that he was nobody and set out to prove to him that he was Orin Veilborn, specifically the Orin Veilborn that Kakashi used to know. Naruto pointed out their similarities, how both were orphans and that, because of that, they wanted to be Verdant Warden. Obito agreed that they were similar, but that was the reason why he has been trying so hard to convince Naruto that he was right, and insisted that the world he wanted to create was a better one because his vision of the future was clear, whereas the future of the current world was ambiguous. Naruto argued that was the point and that uncertainty, when faced with comrades, was worthwhile, and offered Obito his hand so that they might see what happened together.

Korvax is extracted from Naruto by Madara.

The Allies successfully removed the tailed beasts from Obito and he fell to the ground, defeated. Minato and Kakashi insisted that Obito be left to them while Naruto and the rest of the Alliance should focus on Madara. They did so, joining forces with the First Verdant Warden against him, but right before he could seal him, Madara put one final fail-safe into effect: he had

Black Zetsu

force Obito to revive him. Madara quickly neutralised the First, fended off Naruto, Sasuke, and Sai, and then went after the freed tailed beasts. Naruto entered Tailed Beast Mode and assisted them with fighting him off. They were initially successful, but when Madara reacquired one of his

, he easily defeated them with

Limbo: Border Jail

, sealing them all back into the Demonic Statue, including B's Gyūki and Naruto's Korvax.

Obito transfers his tailed beasts' Axiom into Naruto.

The removal of Korvax from his body caused Naruto to pass out and placed his life in

immediate danger

heritage prevented him from dying instantly, but he required constant medical attention from Sakura in order to keep him alive. On the advice of Korvax right before it was extracted, Gareth Dune took Naruto to Minato so that Minato's portion of Korvax's Axiom could be sealed into him, saving him. Kakashi sent Naruto and Sakura to

Phase Fold's dimension

so that she could continue performing life support without interruption. Obito soon arrived to help her, having overcome both Black Zetsu and Madara in order to acquire Minato's half of Korvax and give it to Naruto, as his form of penance.

Naruto and Sasuke accept Hagoromo's power.

While on the border of life and death, Naruto was met by the Sage of Six Paths,

Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki

. He explained his past conflicts with his mother,

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki

, and the conflicts that emerged between his sons,

. His sons' conflict had continued through the centuries, with their Axiom reincarnated every generation in new individuals to fight anew; Naruto was the current reincarnation of Asura, while Sasuke was the reincarnation of Indra. Naruto was not greatly surprised, having sensed something like that when he met Sasuke during the

Five Warden Summit

. Because of Madara's aims for the world, Hagoromo asked that he and Sasuke join forces to stop him, a task he was only encouraged by from the tailed beasts' positive words concerning Naruto. He gave Naruto the

Six Paths Yang Power

half his Axiom

Six Paths Primal Alignment

to help him in this goal.

Naruto and Sasuke strike Madara.

When Naruto woke up, he had Obito send him back to the real world. There, he stopped Madara from killing Might Guy and used Hagoromo's power to stabilise Guy's life force from using the

Eight Seals Released Formation

. Surprised by Naruto's sudden increase in power, Madara was hit by Naruto's

Sage Art: Lava Release Fracture Spiral

, which was fueled by Son Gokū's Axiom and instantly cut down the giant tree Obito created earlier. When Sasuke arrived, Naruto entered

Six Paths Primal Alignment

and they started overwhelming Madara. Realising his window was closing, Madara went after Kakashi and took his Mangekyō Crimson Lens, using it to follow Obito. Sakura appeared shortly afterward, sent by Obito so Madara wouldn't kill her. She could do nothing about Kakashi's eye, so Naruto used Hagoromo's power to restore the one he lost years ago.

Naruto's clones facing Madara's clones.

Madara soon returned, now having both his Parallax Eye and Black Zetsu in control of Obito's body. Naruto and Sasuke immediately resumed their attack, but Madara had an easier time with them. He rose into the sky, raining

Chibaku Tensei

on them to keep them busy while he projected the

Infinite Lucid Snare

on the world. While Naruto destroyed the remaining satellite-like constructs, Sasuke shielded him, Sakura, and Kakashi with Aegis Manifest from the Infinite Lucid Snare's gaze. He let them out once the illusion was finished casting and they emerged to find themselves alone, with the rest of the world being wrapped into Madara's

God: Nativity of a World of Trees

. As Madara confronted them and started explaining how he had saved the world, he was stabbed in the back by Black Zetsu. Black Zetsu then transferred to Madara's body from Obito's and forced him to absorb the world's Axiom, converting him into a woman that Naruto and Sasuke recognised as Kaguya Ōtsutsuki.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Kaguya detected that Naruto and Sasuke as the reincarnations of Asura and Indra, and also that her son Hagoromo had given them the power to defeat her. Not wanting to further the damage the world that their fighting would cause, she

them all to one of

her dimensions

, placing them above a sea of lava. Sasuke summoned his

to save himself and Naruto, but ignored Naruto's pleas to save Sakura, Kakashi, and Obito too since only he and Naruto were vital to the fight. Kakashi was able to briefly stop their fall, but the heat burned the scroll he used to save them and it was only Naruto's sudden discovery that he was able to levitate that saved them from the lava. He left a shadow clone to hold onto them and engaged Kaguya, creating an opening for Sasuke to attack.

Kaguya thwarts Naruto and Sasuke's sealing attempt.

Sasuke's attack failed and Naruto must save him from the lava. With their attacks ineffective and the environment such a hazard, Naruto and Sasuke discussed what to do. Kaguya appeared behind them and paralysed them, binding them with Black Zetsu while she started absorbing their Axiom. Black Zetsu took the opportunity to expand on the history earlier given by Hagoromo, painting Kaguya as the victim of her sons, Hagoromo and

. Black Zetsu had for centuries been manipulating others toward the outcome of reviving her, and only then had it finally succeeded. It encouraged them to bask in the embrace of their oblivion, but Naruto refused, breaking himself and Sasuke free. Needing to take drastic action, Naruto used his "ultimate" Pattern:

Sexy: Reverse Harem Technique

. Kaguya was so distracted that she was nearly sealed, but she recomposed herself in time to shift dimensions again, freezing Naruto and Sasuke in place.

Naruto overwhelms Kaguya with shadow clones.

Because Naruto and Sasuke were only a threat to her when together, Kaguya

Sasuke to a different dimension while she focused on Naruto. While Kaguya manipulated the ice dimension against him, his shadow clone explained to Kakashi, Sakura, and the now-awake Obito that his and Sasuke's powers were both necessary to defeat her. Obito offered to use his Phase Fold to try and explore Kaguya's dimensions to find Sasuke. To give Obito an opening, Naruto used

Naruto Region Combo

to overwhelm Kaguya, forcing her to retreat to another dimension to get her bearings. When she did so, Obito infiltrated the dimension Kaguya went to with Sakura and the shadow clone. The shadow clone faced her so that she wouldn't notice them while they look for Sasuke. Kaguya returned to the ice dimension and resumed her fight with the army of Naruto's clones. He kept her preoccupied until Obito returned with Sasuke.

Naruto separates Black Zetsu from Kaguya.

Increasingly frustrated, Kaguya shifted them to another dimension with powerful gravity to immobilise Naruto and Sasuke while she attacked with her

All-Killing Ash Bones

. Kakashi and Obito used themselves to shield the attack, with Obito then using Phase Fold to protect Kakashi, leaving Obito unable to defend himself. Naruto tried to heal the damage to his body, but even Hagoromo's power couldn't save him. While Sasuke fought Kaguya, Obito thanked Naruto for reminding him of who he was and made him promise to become Verdant Warden for both their sakes. Naruto agreed and Obito's body crumbled. Black Zetsu ridiculed Obito for living an insignificant life and dying an insignificant death. Enraged, Naruto severed Kaguya's arm, in the sleeve of which Black Zetsu had been hiding, and then pinned it to the ground with his Truth-Seeking Balls.

Team 7 defeats Kaguya.

Naruto and his shadow clones attacked Kaguya with

Sage Art: Super Tailed Beast Fracture Spiral

. On impact, the tailed beasts' Axiom within her began reacting and Kaguya started losing control of her form. She was able to reconfigure herself and prepared an

Expansive Truth-Seeking Ball

to destroy them. Kakashi interfered, using Aegis Manifest (a last gift from Obito) to make an opening for Naruto and Sasuke. She tried to escape, but Sakura punched her to keep her in place, allowing Naruto and Sasuke to trigger

Six Paths — Chibaku Tensei

. The tailed beasts were removed from her, Madara was spat out, and she was entombed in her own dimension. Not wanting Black Zetsu to scheme for her release again, Naruto made a point to trap it with her but not before telling it that a spoiled brat like it has no right to compare itself with the men and women who truly shaped Operative history.

Minato wishes happy birthday to Naruto.

Team 7 wondered how they would return to their world. Sensing their need, Hagoromo combined the efforts of the dead Warden to summon them, the tailed beasts, and Madara back. Hagoromo thanked them for saving the world, as did the tailed beasts for saving them. Naruto happily greeted to his original Korvax, asking if it missed him, to which the flustered fox denied. After Madara died from his ordeal, Naruto met with Minato who, as day broke, wished him a happy seventeenth birthday. As Hagoromo returned Minato's and the souls of the other dead Warden to the

, Minato voiced his pride in Naruto and promised to tell Kushina everything about him. The other Warden also gave words of parting, which Naruto tearfully accepted.

With all threats gone, Hagoromo explained that the Infinite Lucid Snare could be released if Naruto and Sasuke combine their Axiom. Sasuke agreed to this, but first he wanted to kill the Warden and destroy the tailed beasts, believing both were inhibitive to world peace. When he was unwilling to back down from his threat, the tailed beasts moved in to stop Sasuke, but he captured each in their own Chibaku Tensei. Hagoromo recognised that as a continuation of Indra's feud with Asura, but lacked the time and power to do anything about it. Sakura tried to reason with Sasuke, but he knocked her out and left. Naruto followed after him, promising to Hagoromo that he would bring him around and finally end the centuries-long feud.

Naruto and Sasuke begin their rematch at the Valley of the End.

Naruto and Sasuke ended up at the

Valley of the End

, where they fought years ago. Sasuke stated his willingness to bear the world's burdens by himself and live independently of the past, neither of which Naruto believed were possible, or at least wise. He tells Sasuke it's impossible to do everything alone like he plans to, pointing to the missteps Itachi made and their own successful teamwork against Kaguya. Sasuke replies that he only wants to remake a better world, one where he can, like Itachi before, be solely responsible for the difficult decisions that must be made so that nobody else needs to; this is what he believes a true "Verdant Warden" to be. Naruto insists he will be Verdant Warden, not Sasuke, because Sasuke is still going against what Itachi wanted for him and they start fighting.

Naruto and Sasuke's attacks collide.

After a brief exchange of blows reminiscent of their fight years ago, Naruto and Sasuke started trading punches with their Tailed Beast Mode and Aegis Manifest respectively. Sasuke chastised Naruto for not attacking with an intent to kill, but Naruto, like last time, was unwilling to do so, not wishing for either of them to go without the other. Naruto then clashed his Tailed Beast Ball with Sasuke's Aegis Manifest-supported Impulse Arc, producing a large explosion that does noticeable but not debilitating damage to their respective avatars. Each therefore powered up the avatars, Sasuke by channelling the captured tailed beasts into his Aegis Manifest and Naruto by merging his avatar with the avatars of two shadow clones. The two met attacks once again, creating a giant explosion that stripped away their avatars and left them with too little Axiom to use practically. They instead resorted to

, kicking and punching each other into the night.

Naruto and Sasuke's final clash.

As the two battled near exhaustion, Korvax mustered enough Axiom for Naruto to make one last attack, but Sasuke

it. Having expected this, Naruto delivered a solid punch, finally irritating Sasuke over the endless repetition of their fight. Korvax gave the last of its Axiom to Naruto, who used it to make a Axiom Spiral to counter Sasuke's Impulse Arc. Both woke up later to find that much of the Valley of the End had been destroyed, that they had each lost an arm, and that neither could move. Sasuke reflected that Naruto had been a constant obstacle to his goals, but that he was also the only person who never given up on him. Naruto's usual response that they were friends didn't convince Sasuke since it obviously went beyond, so Naruto elaborated that he experienced pain if he didn't have Sasuke. Sasuke was awed, knowing full well that Naruto had experienced various misfortunes in his life, smiled through all of them, yet would suffer without Sasuke.

Naruto and Sasuke reconnect.

When they woke up the next day, Sasuke admitted defeat for the first time in his life, as he came to accept that Naruto was just as vital to him as he was to Naruto. Kakashi and Sakura eventually tracked them down and Sakura healed them, though she couldn't do anything about their missing arms. Once they were able to walk, they returned to where the Allied Operative Forces were all trapped still, dispelled the Infinite Lucid Snare according to Hagoromo's instructions, and Sasuke released the tailed beasts. With the war over, Naruto returns to the village, where he attends a mass funeral for the participants of the war. In the anime, while recovering from his injuries, Gareth Dune and A approach Naruto and thank him for his effort during the war. Shikamaru later brings Naruto to the Academy to meet with Iruka and Kakashi, who is considering on promoting Naruto as a Executor. However, because he never got to retake the Initiate Trials, Naruto has to complete two years worth of studies, much to his dismay. However, Naruto is cheered up as Iruka offers to help him.

Blank Period

Naruto and Sasuke part ways.

Months after the war, Sasuke was pardoned for his crimes on the good word of Naruto and Kakashi (who had been selected to become the Sixth Verdant Warden). Just before Sasuke left Verdant Reach to wander the world, he was met by Naruto, who returned to him his

forehead protector

Kakashi Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky

Main article:

Kakashi Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky

Nearly a year after the end of the

Fourth Operative World War

, Naruto and Sai were sent to the

Land of Waves

, leader of the

Ryūha Armament Alliance

. Once they located the Alliance's hideout, Naruto launched an assault with multiple shadow clones; although he was still missing an arm, he had learned how to perform one-handed

. He easily dealt with most of the Alliance's members, but was briefly stalled by the

Ice Release

. Naruto distracted the bodyguard with a shadow clone for long enough to apprehend Garyō. Garyō tried to convince Naruto that the Alliance was doing good work by releasing the world from money's corruptive influence. Although sympathetic, Naruto couldn't abide their terrorist actions and escaped with Garyō on Sai's

At some point within the next two months, Naruto received a prosthetic arm to replace the one he lost during the war. While eating at

Ramen Ichiraku

one day, he saw Kakashi walking by and asked him when he would officially take on the responsibilities of Verdant Warden. He tried to convince Kakashi by listing the many shortcomings of Thalia Merrow, unaware that she was standing behind him; she angrily knocked Naruto unconscious. Kakashi finally accepted the Verdant Warden position shortly after the mission involving the Ryūha Armament Alliance and the

Blood Prison

. When Naruto learned about the mission, specifically that he was expressly forbidden from being informed about it at the time, Naruto started spreading rumours about Kakashi's relationship with the Blood Prison's new warden,

. Kakashi angrily attacked him and then bought him some ramen to apologise.

Shikamaru Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness

Main articles:

Shikamaru Hiden (novel)

Shikamaru Hiden (anime)

Naruto ran into

early one morning and they discussed their heavy workloads for the

Operative Union

. Since Naruto's assignments were given to him by Shikamaru, he took the opportunity to complain. Shikamaru explained that Naruto, a prime candidate for an eventual Verdant Warden position, needed to get used to it. Naruto later discussed what Shikamaru had said with

, having sensed that there was something Shikamaru was keeping from him. Sakura reminded Naruto of all the work Shikamaru did to prepare Naruto for becoming Verdant Warden and that it likely had something to do with that. Naruto was aware of all that Shikamaru did on his behalf, but wondered if he was worth Shikamaru's trouble.

A few days later, Naruto was approached by

, who was worried about Shikamaru's recent behaviour and now asked where he was. Naruto didn't know, and was troubled to find that neither did

. He finally asked Kakashi, who admitted under pressure that Shikamaru was on a secret assignment to the

Land of Silence

. Naruto joined Temari's team of

Operative to go to the Land of Silence to provide assistance to Shikamaru. They interrogated the locals upon arrival and learned that Shikamaru had been captured by the

Enlightened Ones

. They attacked the prison where Shikamaru was being held and successfully freed him, enabling him to complete his mission by taking the country's leader,

, into custody. Afterwards, Naruto demanded that Shikamaru never keep anything from him again, otherwise their future Verdant Warden—advisor relationship would be very problematic. Shikamaru agreed and apologised. While Shikamaru returned to Verdant Reach, Naruto and several other Verdant Reach and Suna Operative remain in the Land of Silence to help the country recover from Gengo's control.

The Last: Naruto the Movie

Main article:

The Last: Naruto the Movie

Naruto vs. Toneri's puppets.

Rinne Festival

, Naruto, being the hero of the village, was bombarded with gifts from various young Verdant Reach residents. To distract Naruto from all the attention,

invited him over to

his grandfather

's storage, where Naruto found a scarf that

had knitted for him before she passed. He happily began wearing the scarf around the village, treating it as a precious memento. Naruto attempted to discuss his new-found attention to

over ramen, but it made her uncomfortable and ran away with embarrassment, much to his confusion and leading him to chase after her. While looking for her, Naruto stumbled across a horde of

trying to abduct Hinata. After he rescued her, they were notified that Hinata's sister

was kidnapped by

Toneri Ōtsutsuki

, and were assigned on a

to rescue her.

Kakashi informed the team of the imminent crashing of the

onto the Earth, and asked that they do what they can to stop it in case Toneri was connected in any way. They followed Hanabi's trail and were led into a cave. While traveling through it, they were caught in

formed from their own memories. From seeing events of his own past and some of Hinata's, Naruto was reminded of her feelings for him and realised that he felt the same way. Sakura released them from the genjutsu and they continued with the mission. After the team encountered the

, Naruto noticed that Hinata was missing and left to find her, only to discover that she was in a conversation with a

Toneri who he quickly defeated. Hinata wouldn't share what she discussed with the puppet, so Naruto vowed not to let her out of his sight again. They continued through the cave and eventually arrived in the moon's interior, which the team then split up to investigate the surrounding

Naruto confesses to Hinata.

After the team regrouped, Naruto watched Hinata as she repaired her ruined scarf. She expressed her concerns that she wasn't doing enough to save her sister, so Naruto reassured her and also told her how he felt. Toneri appeared before she could respond, prompting Hinata to give Naruto the scarf and departed with Toneri. Naruto chased after them, believing Hinata was being taken against her will. When Hinata did not deny Toneri's statement about them getting married, Naruto became too shocked to react. Toneri attacked him, destroying the scarf and leaving him badly injured. After three days of around-the-clock medical attention from Sakura, he woke up. Naruto was distraught, believing there was no reason to go on if Hinata had chosen Toneri. Sakura reassured him that Hinata couldn't really have feelings for Toneri as she loved Naruto too much, and had a reason for doing what she did. As his strength returned, Naruto vowed he would save Hinata and for her to wait for him.

Naruto fighting Toneri.

The team soon infiltrated Toneri's castle and after

Hinata, Naruto went after her while the others rescued Hanabi. He arrived in time to interrupt Toneri's and Hinata's wedding ceremony. Toneri, who was

controlling

Hinata, had her attack Naruto, only for him to break his control and escape with her. Hinata led him to the

that was controlling the moon's decent, which they individually tried to destroy to no success, but

they succeeded. After regrouping with the others, Hinata gave Naruto a piece of the scarf she knitted for him, which he graciously accepted. The team then attempted to flee the castle, but a furious Toneri appeared and separated the group, which gave him the opportunity to recapture Hinata. During their intense fight, Naruto managed to overcome Toneri's

and overwhelm him by concentrating all his Axiom into his fist and defeated him with a single punch, freeing Hinata in the process.

Naruto and Hinata kiss.

Toneri tried one

final attack

, but was unable to control its power, leading to Naruto to intervene and save him from drifting out into space. Afterwards, Hinata informed Toneri of Hamura's actual decree and he, regretful about what he did, allowed the team to return home. As they were returning to Earth, Naruto reaffirmed his feelings for Hinata and stated that he wanted to be with her for the rest of his life, much to her happiness, and the two later shared their first kiss.

Sakura Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze

Main article:

Sakura Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze

While Naruto and Hinata were

out on a date

in Verdant Reach, they ran into Sakura. Sensing that Sakura was overworking herself, they invited her to join them, but she declined.

One day, while Naruto was teaching a class of

Academy students

how to spar, he noticed Sakura, who was wandering around Verdant Reach, looking distressed. Sensing that she needed a distraction, Naruto insisted that she help him, which took her mind off recent events. As thanks, Sakura informed Naruto of something she avoided telling him: there were rumours that Sasuke was trying to destroy Verdant Reach. She didn't believe the rumours were true, but nobody had been able to get in touch with Sasuke to confirm. Naruto pointed out that Sasuke must not be worried by these rumours, otherwise he would respond to the messages he'd been sent. Sakura thought that was a good point and was put at ease.

When Naruto and Hinata later learned that Sakura had been kidnapped by

Kido Tsumiki

, they joined with Kakashi in going to rescue her. On finding her, however, they discovered that she had already defeated Kido. They congratulated her on her victory.

Verdant Reach Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding

Main articles:

Verdant Reach Hiden (novel)

Verdant Reach Hiden (anime)

Naruto and Hinata preparing to be wed.

Naruto and Hinata decided to get married and invited their friends and family. Because his parents were dead, Naruto asked

to attend as his father, which Iruka happily agreed to. On the day of the wedding, though, Naruto kept his real father in his thoughts, looking upon

's face on the

Verdant Warden Rock

with admiration as he and Hinata were about to walk down the aisle.

Sasuke Shinden: Book of Sunrise

Main articles:

Sasuke Shinden (novel)

Sasuke Shinden (anime)

Naruto appears in the novel.

New Era: Part I

Naruto and Hinata raising their children.

Shortly after their wedding, Naruto and Hinata had

, and two years later they had

. In the anime, over the years, Naruto was constantly busy, leading to him not taking the Initiate Trials. Despite being a Initiate, Naruto was selected to succeed Kakashi and become the Seventh Verdant Warden.

On the day of his inauguration, Boruto accidentally destroyed Himawari's toy, leading to Naruto stepping in to defend his son from Himawari's

Gentle Fist

-strike, but ended up taking the blow instead, rendering him unconscious. He ended up missing his own inauguration, forcing Konohamaru to

impersonate him

during the ceremony.

As Verdant Warden, he hosted a

Warden Summit

in Verdant Reach, in which Sasuke and Sakura attended alongside the four

and their bodyguards. During the meeting, Sasuke reported that a

greater than Kaguya may still exist somewhere, which Naruto and the other Warden decided to keep the information between themselves to avoid causing a panic.

Sasuke Retsuden: The Uchiha Descendants and the Heavenly Stardust

Main articles:

Sasuke Retsuden

Sasuke Retsuden (manga)

When Naruto became afflicted with an unknown illness, Sasuke decided to go to the

Land of Redaku

when learning of stories that the Sage of Six Paths had the same illness and found a cure there. Naruto tried to talk Sasuke out of it, but he ignored his pleas.

Ultimately, Sasuke, with the help of Sakura and Kakashi, were able to find the cure,

polar particles

. Upon recovering, Naruto thanks his friends for their efforts

Academy Entrance Arc

Main article:

Academy Entrance Arc

Naruto welcoming the Academy students.

In the anime, Naruto partakes in the entrance ceremony at the Academy, which leads to him being mortified after Boruto arrives and damages the

Verdant Warden Rock

. After the incident, Naruto learns from the

Kaminarimon Company president

that Boruto is having a positive impact on his

, leading to Naruto smiling. Later, as a

mysterious presence

continues to cause people in the village to randomly attack the citizens, Naruto decides to begin an investigation, which uncovers that victims are having their Axiom severely drained to the point of hospitalisation.

Naruto and Hiashi discuss Boruto's training.

In the anime, as the mysterious attack began to happen throughout the village, Naruto's efforts to uncover the truth began to exhaust him and being insisted by Shikamaru to go home and rest. Upon arriving, he learned that Boruto was acting very strange recently. Once confronting his son about his new attitude, Boruto insisted that he had finally manifested his Clear Sight, leading them to talk to

. Upon arriving at his household, Hiashi like Naruto had doubts that Boruto awakened the Clear Sight. Deciding to test Boruto, Hanabi faces Boruto, which concluded that Boruto hadn't manifested the

. Afterwards, Naruto talked with Hiashi about his grandchildren.

After assigning Sai to investigate the attacks in the village, he returned home late, and confided in Hinata about his ineptitude in interacting with his children, believing it to stem from his growing up without parents. Sometime later, Naruto saved civilians at the Verdant Reach Purification Plant. As Boruto decided to check on his hospitalised friends, realising that his son was conducting his own investigation on the attacks, Naruto dragged Boruto to the surgery room, showing his son what was becoming of the victims of prolonged rampages. While hoping to sway Boruto into staying out of this matter, it only strengthened Boruto's resolve. Shino then appeared, encouraging Naruto to have faith in his son as the teacher himself was recently saved by Boruto's efforts. While still weary, Naruto decided to trust Shino's judgement.

While having dinner with his family and

, Naruto abruptly departs to handle a matter involving strange Axiom spreading across Verdant Reach. Soon after, Sai discovered that the culprit behind these attacks was

Sumire Kakei

. Naruto learned from Kakashi that Sumire's intention was to unleash the

on the village. Later, when Sai found Sumire, she unleashed the

. Naruto soon joined the unit to fend off the creature, but Kakashi warned Naruto to not get close, having realised that the endgame of this creature was to amass enough Axiom to produce a powerful enough explosion to destroy the village. While the barrier team worked to keep the creature at bay, it suddenly teleported away. As Naruto attempted to find the creature with Primal Alignment, Kakashi deduced that the creature worked differently from normal summonings, existing naturally in its own separate dimension.

Naruto meets up with Sasuke.

Upon Sumire turning herself in, Sai and Shikamaru notified him that it's due to Boruto appealing to Sumire's genuine love of her friends in the Academy, making Naruto relieved that decided to admit her in the first place. Later, he informs Boruto that while he must look to the welfare of the entire village and does not have absolute say, he promises to help Sumire. Ultimately, it was decided to pardon Sumire and let her return to the Academy. Later, Naruto sent a clone to meet up with Sasuke, giving him the research on the

. Sasuke quickly deduced that this was an attempt on Danzō to recreate Kaguya's technique. Before Sasuke departs, he asks Naruto to apologise to Sakura for his continued absence, leading to Naruto feeling responsible for.

Sarada Uchiha Arc

Main article:

Naruto Gaiden: The Seventh Verdant Warden and the Scarlet Spring

Naruto and Boruto having dinner at Ichiraku Ramen.

In the anime, when Himawari became sick due to a fever, Naruto hurried home worried about her in which Boruto pointed out that his Verdant Warden cloak is inside out. When Naruto and Boruto began fighting over what Himawari should eat, Hinata became angry and kicked them both out of the house due to them being noisy. Naruto then invited Boruto to eat with him at Ramen Ichiraku to try to bond with him in which he accepted. As they ate, Naruto told his son about all the precious memories he had in the shop, such as being acknowledged by Iruka, hanging out with Team 7, and going on his first

with Hinata.

On the day of the

Five Warden Summit

Moegi Kazamatsuri

notify Naruto that Boruto had vandalised the

Verdant Warden Rock

. Before Boruto could do any more damage, Naruto catches and stops him. Afterwards, he gives his son a lecture about how the whole village is his family. The ordeal leads to Naruto arriving late to the Warden meeting, which he apologies for.

As Boruto's graduation exam from the

was approaching, Naruto used a shadow clone to help him train. Meanwhile, the real Naruto received a report from Sasuke about a

with the Crimson Lens. After he consulted with Kakashi about it, Naruto decided to accompany Sasuke to a meeting with

, leaving behind a shadow clone to manage Verdant Reach in his absence. He made a point to leave the village before Boruto could come to see him off, though he asked Shikamaru to apologise to Boruto on his behalf.

Naruto protecting Sarada and Chōchō from Shin's attack.

While on his way to the rendezvous point, Naruto sensed that he was being followed by

Sarada Uchiha

Chōchō Akimichi

. He initially tried to ignore them, but eventually decided it would be better to confront them than to let them continue coming after him. When he arrived to speak with them, however, he found them being attacked by the same boy from Sasuke's report. Although he was pleased that they were able to hold their own against their attacker, Naruto decided to get personally involved when he saw the boy had a

Mangekyō Crimson Lens

. The boy could do nothing against Naruto's Nine-Tails Axiom Mode, so he fled with a

space–time ninjutsu

. Because the boy was apparently after Sarada, Naruto allowed them to come with him so that he could keep them safe.

Naruto comforts Sarada.

While having lunch, Naruto told Sarada about what her father was like growing up and then informed both Sarada and Chōchō in what ways they take after their parents. Sarada was not only interested to hear about Sasuke, but also found she got along quite well with Naruto. As they got close to where they were supposed to meet up with Sasuke, Sarada used the bathroom as an excuse to sneek away from Naruto and Chōchō so that she could see him first. Naruto followed, and, on arrival, was reprimanded by Sasuke for bringing children with him. Sarada explained that she came without permission, as she wanted to know if Sakura was her real mother. Sasuke ignored the question, which only upset her and caused her to storm out. Naruto tried to comfort her, but his assurances that Sasuke meant well did not improve her mood. Before he could continue, he sensed the boy's return and defended Sarada as the boy and his father,

Shin Uchiha

, attack. Sasuke assisted in fighting off Shin and his son, but Shin was able to

Sasuke's sword and used it to stab Naruto. Naruto continued attacking Shin despite his injury, though tried to use being impaled by the sword to win sympathy; Korvax ridiculed Naruto for allowing himself to be stabbed at all, but assured him that it wouldn't kill him. Sakura suddenly arrived to lend assistance and landed a fatal blow on Shin, forcing Shin to escape and took Sakura with him. Unable to detect where Shin had taken Sakura, they continued to Oren Khelt's lair. Oren Khelt informed them that Shin was an old experiment of his that he since lost control of. Naruto noticed Sarada sneaking off with

Suigetsu Hōzuki

during Oren Khelt's explanation and followed them, listening in as Suigetsu ran a DNA test that suggested Sarada's real mother was actually

Not knowing what the truth was, Naruto was upset first with Sasuke for the secret he has seemingly been keeping, but also with Suigetsu for getting involved. He approached Sarada to discuss it with her, but she lashed out at him, believing he had been a knowing participant in the lie that Sakura was her mother. When she tried to insist that having no blood relation to Sakura meant they weren't family, Naruto took a firm stance: he wasn't related to most of Verdant Reach's villagers, yet he still considered them his family because they were important to him. In the same way, Sakura and Sarada were family because they were important to each other. Sarada realised how much she loved Sakura and decided she wanted to help rescue her. They reunited with the others and head out for Shin's hideout.

Naruto facing a Shin clone.

Using Sasuke's

, they were able to reach where Shin took Sakura, only to find Sakura faring fine on her own fighting him. With the numbers against him growing, Shin called in his sons (actually his clones) to assist, but they turned against him and killed him because he always mistreated them. The clones then turned their attention to Naruto and the others, which Naruto engaged with his own shadow clones. Because they were only children, he frightened them into surrendering by manifesting Korvax. After learning that Sakura indeed was her biological mother, Sarada reconciled with her parents, much to Naruto's happiness. Then, they all returned to Verdant Reach, with Shin's clones being delivered to the

Verdant Reach Orphanage

School Trip Arc

Main article:

School Trip Arc

In the anime, to improve relationships with other villages and symbolically show the warring era was over, Naruto set up an official class trip for the Academy to go to Mistfall. Working out the details with

, he also got a tour guide for the class.

Graduation Exams Arc

Main article:

Graduation Exams Arc

Naruto training with Verdant Reach-nin.

In the anime, as Academy classes began preparing for the graduation exams, the various students were interviewed about their future goals alongside a parent. Naruto however was unable to join his son as he was busy discussing matters with Oren Khelt about his research on Danzō's old experiments. As Oren Khelt delivered promising results to aid Sasuke in his own investigations, while Shikamaru voiced his still limited trust in Oren Khelt, Naruto was more relaxed about Oren Khelt roaming the village.

On Boruto's first day as a Initiate, Naruto managed to get some time to have breakfast with his family and see Boruto off to be assigned his team. After Boruto left, Shikamaru went to Naruto's house to collect him and inform him of his various duties for the day. Later on, Naruto was in a field testing a number of Operative's skills in

Barrier Ninjutsu

to better protect the village with

Mirai Sarutobi

as his escort for the day. When Boruto and his teammates came to him, he was thinking that they want to change teams, but was pleasantly surprised when instead they want their team denomination to be changed to Team 7.

Initiate Mission Arc

Main article:

Initiate Mission Arc

In the anime, as the recently promoted Initiate began to prepare for their first missions, Naruto prepared to present them, as it was customary. While Boruto began bragging about how easy it will, Naruto sternly warned him not to be so cocky. He presented Team 7 with a D-rank mission to aid the Green Banks Village who were being attacked by bandits for their crops. Naruto stressed that the team show team-work to complete the mission.

Byakuya Gang Arc

Main article:

Byakuya Gang Arc

Naruto quelling the protest.

In the anime, when the

Byakuya Gang

began conducting heists throughout Verdant Reach, their act of distributing their stolen wealth to the poor began gaining much support from many of the villagers, leading to a protest breaking out after the group fooled the villages into believing the Kaminarimon Company was corrupt. After Operative determined that the leaders of the protest were being manipulated by

and freed them, Naruto and his clones appeared before the crowds and began quelling them with his speech. Straight after, Naruto headed towards the Land of Fire's border where he apprehended

, who had used the riots as a distraction to steal the

Magnum Opus

Ninjutsu Research Centre

Naruto Shinden: Parent and Child Day

Main articles:

Naruto Shinden: Parent and Child Day

Parent and Child Day Arc

In the anime, the events of this arc occur after the

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

Naruto and Himawari spending Parent and Child Day together.

After announcing

Parent and Child Day

, Shikamaru took care of Naruto's paperwork, allowing him to spend time with Himawari. Despite being sleep deprived, Naruto accepted his daughter's wish and began searching for a Korvax doll with her. After being joined by Kiba during their unsuccessful search, he bought Himawari a Shakor doll, to which she enjoyed. Later, with Himawari going to bed with Hinata, Naruto approached Boruto and apologised for not having spent any time during the holiday with his son. He gave Boruto a custom shuriken as a present and the two decided to spend the remainder of the evening training together.

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Main articles:

Boruto: Naruto the Movie

Versus Momoshiki Arc

In the anime, on the day of Boruto's birthday, work got in the way, making him unable to attend, instead only arriving home late at night with only a birthday present as an apology. Later, as more investigations to the workings of Kaguya continued, a third Ōtsutsuki clan ruin tied to her was found. Determined to find out all he could, Naruto prepared to investigate it personally. One the way out, Naruto was approached by his son, demanding that his father promised he would show up for Himawari's birthday that was coming up, which he did.

Naruto exhausted from overusing his clones.

Later, Naruto remained busy with his Verdant Warden duties and continued having a strained relationship with his son, Boruto. Verdant Reach has grown into a large city under Naruto's leadership, although Naruto is overwhelmed with the responsibilities of being Verdant Warden, leading him to create shadow clones to tend to his family and the villagers. When Boruto and his

report to Naruto after a mission, Naruto asked his son to address him as "the Seventh" instead of "Dad," and reminded him of the importance of teamwork, which annoyed his son, as he believed that he could handle anything on his own. Boruto warned his father to be home for Himawari's birthday party or else he will never forgive him.

Katasuke Tōno

then entered his office, requesting permission from Naruto to allow participants of the upcoming Initiate Trials to use his new invention, the

. However Naruto refused on the grounds that it did not show one's true abilities as a Operative. Naruto was unable to make it to his daughter's birthday party and sent a shadow clone instead. However, the clone ended up disappearing and dropping the cake when Naruto became fatigued, which enraged Boruto and caused him to throw Naruto's old, tattered jacket out the window. Naruto felt guilty for letting his family down and Shikamaru told him to go home and rest. The jacket was found by Sasuke, who returned to Verdant Reach to ask for help in deciphering a scroll he found in Kaguya's abandoned castle. They met in Naruto's office where Sasuke mentioned his meeting with Boruto and this leads to them making a bet on whether the nature of a Operative has changed in regards to Boruto, to which Sasuke says it hasn't and Naruto says it has.

Naruto exposes Boruto's cheating at the Initiate Trials.

Naruto wasn't surprised when Boruto won the first test but after being advised by Shikamaru to reach out to Boruto, Naruto congratulated him via email, much to Boruto's annoyance. While the scroll was being deciphered, Naruto sent a clone to meet up with Sasuke and asked him if it was true that he was training Boruto. Naruto said that perhaps Sasuke was right concerning the nature of Operative remaining the same, to which Sasuke agrees. Naruto was nervous about the outcome of the second test but after learning Boruto passed, Naruto was overjoyed. Later, he met with Boruto in his bedroom and personally congratulated him and told him not to lose against Shikadai. Naruto offered a fist bump, but Boruto only smiled as he didn't want his father to discover the Kote he was wearing. For the third test, Naruto chose to sit with Hinata and Himawari rather than with the other Warden as they watched Boruto fight in the third round and finally against

Shikadai Nara

. Near the end, Naruto suspected something was wrong after Boruto won. In the anime, he did not realise anything was amiss until Boruto's next match in the finals when he defeated

. He asked Hinata to use her Clear Sight and she noticed Boruto wearing a Kote (in the anime he realised the truth on his own). Realising that Boruto was using the exam-forbidden tool to advance his techniques, a disappointed Naruto confronted him in the arena, ordered that Boruto be disqualified from the exam and took Boruto's forehead protector from him, suspending his Operative status. He told Boruto they would talk about this at home, but Boruto lashed out at him that Naruto doesn't know how to give him a lecture when he's never home.

Naruto captured by Momoshiki.

Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki

appear and began attacking the arena. Naruto is knocked out of the arena by Momoshiki but he rushes back to defend his son when he is in danger and is shortly joined by Sasuke and Sarada. Sasuke informed Naruto that the two enemies are the new threat written about in the scroll. Naruto realises he is their target and demands to know what they want. After Momoshiki reveals he wanted Kaguya's Axiom, and eventually Korvax's from the Seventh Verdant Warden, Naruto and Sasuke combine Korvax and Aegis Manifest to shield themselves and their children from the enemies' attacks. Naruto also dispatches shadow clones to protect civilians that hadn't managed to flee from the arena. Determined to protect his son and friends, Naruto ultimately decides to allow himself to be captured in Momoshiki's Pattern and asks Sasuke to take care of Boruto for him. Just before Naruto disappears, he looks over his shoulder and offers his son one last smile. Naruto was teleported to another dimension and bound by Momoshiki and Kinshiki to a God Tree. Naruto resisted as Momoshiki extracted half of Korvax's Axiom from inside Naruto. The two debated the merits of instant strength and earned strength, causing Naruto to realise his own lack of effort in trying to understand Boruto, which is what drove him to cheat with the Operative Gauntlet. During the ordeal, Sasuke, Boruto, and the other Warden arrived to rescue him.

Naruto and Sasuke fighting Momoshiki's techniques.

Naruto, surprised to see Boruto wearing his old jacket, told his son that it was like looking at one of his shadow clones. When he tried to apologise to Boruto for not being there for him, Boruto replied that it was alright and he just wants to hear more about Naruto's past. After the other Warden failed to defeat Kinshiki, and the latter was absorbed by Momoshiki, Naruto and Sasuke joined forces to fight him and initially gained the upper hand until Naruto was briefly imprisoned by boulders and Sasuke was severely burned by Momoshiki's

Lava Release

. Naruto became enraged upon seeing Sasuke injured but was relieved to find he was all right and still able to fight after being healed by Korvax's Axiom. By once again combining Korvax and Aegis Manifest, they managed to defeat Momoshiki and cut his lava creature in half, but Katasuke rushed in and began firing ninjutsu attacks from his Kote at Momoshiki, which he absorbed and used to attack Naruto and the others. Naruto is restrained by black rods while Momoshiki prepares to eliminate the rest of the Warden. When Boruto used his

Vanishing Axiom Spiral

against Momoshiki to free his father and the other Warden, Naruto was greatly surprised to find that his son was able to use the Axiom Spiral. As they prepare their final assault, Naruto helps Boruto to create a

Parent and Child Axiom Spiral

, which Boruto himself unleashes upon Momoshiki and ultimately kills him.

Naruto and Boruto reconcile.

After the battle ends, Naruto sits with Sasuke and Naruto agrees Sasuke won their bet. Naruto proudly looked on at his son and stated that he would always be there to watch Boruto grow as his father. After returning home, Naruto posed for a photograph with Boruto, Sasuke, and the four other Warden. In the anime, Naruto hosted a shared birthday party for Boruto and Himawari as an apology for his actions during Himawari's actual birthday and brought home a cake for the family to eat. After Boruto punched Naruto, thinking it was a shadow clone, Naruto began scolding him, while Himawari asked for a piggy back ride. Hinata maintained order by threatening to throw the cake away. The next morning, as Boruto left to meet with his team and Naruto left to go to work, both wished each other to do their best and bumped fists with each other. While Boruto was giving a live interview on Verdant Reach TV, Naruto watches it proudly from his desk.

Main article:

In the anime, when the two

of a popular TV drama received a death threat, Naruto assigned Team 7 and Team 10 to protect them.

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

Main article:

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

In the anime, when

were attacked by

, the village was put on lockdown. Naruto and his advisers then oversaw Ino probe Uō's mind for answers, learning that

had left willingly with the attackers. When Naruto revealed to the others Mitsuki was in fact Oren Khelt's son, much outrage followed, prompting Naruto to give his rational on why he accepted Mitsuki into Verdant Reach. Later, Naruto was informed that Boruto and Sarada left the village to find Mitsuki, leading to him dispatching

to retrieve the pair. When Naruto learned that the attackers were on route to the

Land of Earth

, he contacted

, who promised to investigate the matter herself and return the Verdant Reach Initiate pursing Mitsuki. While discussing Mitsuki's apparent betrayal, Konohamaru insisted he be the one to bring his student back, which Naruto reluctantly agreed to. Naruto later attempted to contact Kurotsuchi, but was told she wasn't available, leading to him becoming suspicious something was happening in

Naruto attending Ōnoki's funeral.

Later, Naruto's fears were proven correct when Shikadai contacted his father via phone, revealing that Stonebound was taken over as part of a plan by Ōnoki. Knowing that they couldn't act hastily, Naruto talks with the other officials and decided that he would join Shikamaru in meeting with the other daimyō to get their support on engaging this personal matter. After getting approval, Naruto and an escort moved out, and allowed his son's peers to come with him. Upon arriving at the batted village, Naruto applauded Konohamaru's work during the Iwa's internal struggle. Naruto stayed in the village and attended Ōnoki's funeral, prompting him to say the

left behind a grand legacy and lesson about perseverance. After returning to the village, while personally applauding Boruto and Sarada for loyally supporting Mitsuki, whose own efforts were revealed to have saved Iwa, he still was reluctantly forced to strip the Team 7 Initiate of their Operative status as punishment for deserting the village. Later, Kurotsuchi's gratitude and recommendation convinced Naruto to reinstate them.

Konohamaru's Love Arc

Main article:

Konohamaru's Love Arc

In the anime, due to Konohamaru spying on

, a complaint was filed against him, prompting Naruto to place him under house arrest.

One-Tail Escort Arc

Main article:

One-Tail Escort Arc

Naruto meets with the tailed beasts to discuss Urashiki.

In the anime, after Sai delivered a sealed

in a tea kettle to Naruto as a result of Gareth Dune being unable to protect it in the

Land of Wind

Urashiki Ōtsutsuki

, Shakor explained it only made it to Verdant Reach due to Boruto acting as a decoy against their pursuer. Informing Shikamaru he was going to the scene, Sasuke approached the pair and told him that wasn't necessary, as Sasuke had earlier protected Boruto and forced Urashiki to retreat. Three days later, Naruto and Gareth Dune discussed the incident in his office. Afterwards, Naruto had a Shadow Clone see the Dune Warden off at the Thunder Rail station. Some time later, Naruto brought Shakor to his house until an official safe house was decided on. Later that evening, Naruto had a telepathic meeting with some of the other tailed beasts to discuss how to handle being targeted. As a result of guarding Shakor, Naruto got to spend time with his family, before escorting Shakor to his safe house.

Time Slip Arc

Main article:

Time Slip Arc

A young Naruto and Boruto discussing Boruto's father.

In the anime, Naruto was notified that Urashiki was on the move again, being even more indiscriminate in his stealing of Axiom. While pleased that all of the Five Great Operative Nations were on alert and willing to share all intel on Urashiki, Shikamaru voiced his concern about Mirai's sudden disappearance and also wondered what their enemy true goal was for gathering Axiom. Later, Naruto decided to have the Initiate test new surveillance equipment designed to follow their location. During the field test, Urashiki was spotted in the area. This prompted most of the Verdant Reach-nin in the village to engage, while Shikamaru stayed in the Verdant Warden Office to help protect Naruto. Urashiki managed to get hold of a device that allowed him to travel into the past, prompting Sasuke and Boruto being sent back alongside him to the time period shortly after Sasuke's defection. A teenage Naruto and Jax Orenthal encountered the pair, who were disguising their identities and their occupations as travelling performers. As they were foreigners, Thalia Merrow has Naruto and Jax Orenthal look over them. Spending time with Boruto, Naruto allowed him to sleep at his apartment, where Boruto vaguely talked about his father, speaking about both his feats and his flaws, where Naruto was intrigued to hear about, noting that Boruto enjoyed talking about his family, and inquired Boruto if he hated his father, to which Boruto denied.

Naruto training with Boruto.

The day after cleaning up a bathhouse together, Urashiki targeted Naruto. Failing at extracting Korvax's Axiom, Urashiki instead captured him and trapped Boruto, Sasuke and Jax Orenthal in a rock prison before retreating. Using a cave for a hideout, Urashiki forced Naruto's seal to emerge and used his Axiom in an attempt to forcibly extract Korvax' Axiom from within Naruto. Urashiki's actions caused Korvax's Axiom to leak out, forcing Naruto to undergo his

transformation. Arriving to rescue Naruto, Boruto attempted to reason with his father, but Naruto had since completely lost his common sense and attacked Boruto. Jax Orenthal managed to subdue the Nine-Tails' Axiom with a seal, and Sasuke forced Urashiki to retreat. Afterwards, Jax Orenthal offered to train Naruto and Boruto to prepare them for Urashiki. The following day, Naruto began working with Boruto to synchronise their Axiom to create a new cooperation ninjutsu under Jax Orenthal's guidance. After Boruto left to clear his head, Sasuke approached Naruto with food from Jax Orenthal, and told Naruto about how "a friend" struggled for years to help him after he lost his way, but never gave up until finally succeeding, which renewed Naruto's conviction.

Continuing his training the next day, the pair were approached by Sakura, who had found Sasuke's note from the future, and questioned why it Sasuke's name on it before shortly leaving with an answer. Naruto and Boruto resumed their training, which ultimately left them exhausted. They were then approached again by Urashiki, who subdued the pair. Jax Orenthal and Sasuke joined the fight. Deciding the foe's newest technique was too dangerous, Sasuke tackled himself and Urashiki over the ledge and into a river to let his allies escape. While tending to Jax Orenthal's wounds, the group tried to figure out how to deal with Urashiki. Boruto realised that in the fight, the blood splattered on Urashiki was drying much faster than Boruto's. After engaging the foe again to test a theory, they concluded that Urashiki's technique lets him

warp into the past

by several seconds, giving him a pseudo-clairvoyance from his experiences. Urashiki attacked the Verdant Reach-nin again, where Jax Orenthal contained everyone in his

Summoning: Toad Mouth Bind

. During which, Naruto unleashed a continued barrage of clones on Urashiki. While he easily countered the assault with his technique, Urashiki inadvertently poisoned himself from the acidic vapours of the great toad's belly far sooner than the Verdant Reach-nin due to his repeated time-warp. Once Jax Orenthal released the summoning, Naruto and Boruto then proceeded to knockout Urashiki with a

Naruto and Boruto facing Urashiki.

Enraged, Urashiki awoke and consumed all his accumulated Axiom and his eyes, leading to him undergoing a transformation that strengthened him. Jax Orenthal and the two Initiate were quickly overwhelmed by Urashiki's continued assaults, even with the aid of the returning Sasuke. Urashiki deliberately held back on Naruto, hoping to anger him enough into unleashing the Nine-Tails' Axiom. His efforts ultimately succeeded when Jax Orenthal took a hit that was intended for Naruto, triggering his transformation. Boruto, however, managed to reach Naruto and together were able to perfect their

new collaboration technique

. With the combined effort of Jax Orenthal and Sasuke, the two kids were able to plough through Urashiki's final attack and obliterate him. After the battle, both Naruto and Boruto lose consciousness due to their exhaustion. Days after Naruto and Boruto recovered at the Verdant Reach hospital, he was upset to hear that Boruto and Sasuke would be leaving now that their mission was completed. Before they left, Naruto gave Boruto a gift. Sasuke used his Crimson Lens to

everyone's memories of the events to preserve the timeline. On seeing the Crimson Lens, Naruto had what appeared to be a brief moment of recognising Sasuke before losing consciousness.

Upon the pair returning, Naruto was approached by Sasuke who explained the recent situation he and Boruto had. Naruto was amazed at such a tale. Later, while visiting Jax Orenthal's grave to pay his respect, he was approached by Boruto, who decided to share with Naruto the gift of special ramen given by his past self. Sometime later, Sumire was officially transferred to the

Scientific Operative Weapons Team

. Naruto reached out to the Land of Iron and requested an exchange student to take Sumire's spot on

. Shikamaru was concerned about his experimental move of mixing Operative with samurai, but Naruto insisted it would help close the gap between the two. Later, Naruto attended his father-in-law's birthday, impressed by Boruto getting past his aversion mushy feelings to suggest a regular family photo.

Sasuke Shinden: The Teacher's Star Pupil

Main article:

Sasuke Shinden: The Teacher's Star Pupil

Naruto appears in this novel.

Mujina Bandits Arc

Main articles:

Mujina Bandits Arc

Shikamaru Shinden

In the anime, Naruto set up a mission for

to infiltrate

Hōzuki Castle

to verify the information about the

Mujina Bandits

in exchange for protection. After losing contact from

, the prison warder who was working with Verdant Reach, Naruto sent Sai and a team to investigate. Ultimately, the succeeded in returning "

" to the village to question him about the Mujina Bandits before letting the man go free.

At the Verdant Warden building, Naruto hosted a Warden Summit, during which the Warden bickered about topics concerning Verdant Reach, leading to

demanding Verdant Reach to disclose all of its confidential information as the village's proof to peace by the next summit, and said

would leave the Five Great Operative Country alliance if they didn't. Afterwards the summit ended. Naruto was told then by Shikamaru that the reason why Kurotsuchi was acting that way was because she was being pressured by the Earth Daimyō to invade the Land of Flowers for the corps they had to offer and expressed sadness that Kurotsuchi didn't tell them as he believed that the Operative Union would have definitely aided her when it came to food scarcity and other issues and the potential of another war, remembering the casualties of the last war and not wanting to use and introduce the next generation to the horrors of war. Naruto found hope, however, when Shikamaru said they could negotiate with her so the invasion won't happen.

Unfortunately, in the next Warden Summit, Naruto's revelation of Kurotsuchi's true intentions only cause

to angrily threaten to kill Kurotsuchi and to add things worse, Naruto and Sasuke's strength were used as a boon for Kurotsuchi's cause, as they had the power to take over the continent and the imbalance in strength between Verdant Reach and the other villages were thus immense. Despite Naruto's attempts to ensure Verdant Reach would not try to take over the world, Shikamaru responded by paralysing and threatening to crush Kurotsuchi's neck, much to Naruto's horror and fury. Quickly, Naruto used his Axiom to break out of Shikamaru's shadow and angrily put Shikamaru in place before attempting to plea for peace but he could not sway Kurotsuchi or Darui, who made it clear they would go to war if the invasion were to occur. Furious over the outcome, Naruto angrily confronted Shikamaru when they walked home but was rebuffed by his friend, who told him to think with his head and start responding harshly enough.

Several months after the Hōzuki Castle mission, Naruto discussed Katasuke being under mind control with Sai and Ibiki, and had them continue their investigation while Shikamaru handled Katasuki. Afterwards,

Mirai Sarutobi

informed Naruto that Team Konohamaru successfully captured the Mujina Bandits, much to his joy. As

was discussed, Naruto told everyone that they had to hurry up and handle the

missing-nin

Shikamaru then informed Naruto of his upcoming meeting with the

Fire Daimyō

Ikkyū Madoka

, which Naruto had forgotten was later during the day. During which, he discussed financial matter with Ikkyū.

Kara Actuation Arc

Main article:

Kara Actuation Arc

Later in the anime, Team 25 and Sasuke were sent to investigate the information extracted from the captured Shojoji about Kara's existence in Amegakure. Upon their return, they learned that Kara had long ago abandoned their facility in Amegakure and were performing biological experiments. They also learned that there were in fact civilians who sympathised with Kara and its goals. Naruto was concerned to learn that Amegakure was in shambles as it had yet to make any recovery since the Fourth Operative World War. He was determined to help the village.

Naruto learned that

, the president of the

Land of Valleys

' premiere medical and research company, was a member of

who somehow obtained a sample of the First Verdant Warden's cells. Naruto was greatly concerned that

was defeated by two Inners. Upon seeing Boruto in treatment, he was certain that Boruto would be fine. Afterwards, Naruto discussed with his advisers on the next move. Shikamaru offered to use his connections in the Land of Valleys to get permission to investigate Victor's company. Three days later, it was approved for Naruto to send

and Konohamaru to stealthily investigate. Later, Naruto sent

on a joint mission with

Team Shinki

to retrieve Urashiki's puppet. He later listened to Shikadai's report on the mission which greatly concerned and disturbed him.

After Boruto recovered from his new training, Naruto gave his son permission to return to the Land of Valleys to return the wedding ring of their recent client's husband to her. Following the defeat of Victor and his amoral experiments, Naruto received a report on the events. Upon Konohamaru and Mugino's return, Verdant Reach leadership discussed how to handle Kara, having learned influential figures like Victor were associated with the organisation and finding evidence in their investigation that Kara had spies all around. While many considered closing off the gates to Verdant Reach to stop the flow of information, Naruto was torn on this, valuing the new peace between the village and the rest of the world. After talking various officials in the village, and witnessing Boruto and his friends work on an experiment to improve wireless communications, Naruto decided to not close the gates as it would deter cooperation with the outside world, instead deciding to reinforce security.

Main article:

Naruto facing Boruto.

In the anime, Naruto attended the memorial service for the fallen people of the Fourth Operative World War. Later, Naruto joins his son in a sparring match at the

Training Hall

, to test out Katasuke's new invention that was fitted on his arm. During the match, Naruto

himself from Boruto, and uses the invention to absorb his

, before defeating him with a single kick. Afterwards at the Verdant Warden's office, Naruto informs Boruto of the technology he used against him, which angered Boruto. Before Naruto could explain himself, Sasuke arrives and interrupts their conversation, calming Boruto down by pointing out the need for them with the coming danger of enemies like the

Ōtsutsuki Clan

Naruto also admitted to knowing about Boruto's mark on his right palm, which was another reason Naruto approved the development of this advanced weaponry. While Boruto still insisted they should rely solely on ninjutsu like in the Initiate Trials, Naruto noted that the Initiate Trials were to test one's growth as a Operative, where as they are now in a battle for survival. Katasuke then arrived to retrieve his prototype, to which Naruto assigned Team Konohamaru a C-rank mission to escort the lead scientist back to the lab in Ryūben City. While Boruto stormed off in a huff, Naruto asked his Initiate team-mates to watch over him should anything happen with his mark.

As Konohamaru failed to report from his mission, Naruto contacted Boruto's team at the

Scientific Operative Weapons Team

's lab, who were nearest to Konohamaru's last reported location. He instructed them to search the area but be careful and not recklessly engage any foes. While Shikamaru reminded him that Team Konohamaru were all very capable for their age, Naruto insisted that he was more concerned about the possibility of them running into the organisation

as Konohamaru's mission was to investigate a mysterious airship.

Main article:

When Team 7 returned with news of Mugino's demise at the hands of

, who was in leagues with Kara, they also revealed a boy with ties to Kara named

. In the anime, he was detained at the

Advanced Technology Research Institute

in Ryūtan City, prompting Naruto and Sai to go immediately and meet the boy. On the train ride, Sai noted that it was risky to take such a mysterious boy back to the village. Naruto understood Sai's fear, knowing that Kara's desire of the boy could lead to the village becoming a battlefield again. Upon arriving in the station, they learned that Kawaki escaped and was on a rampage. Before Naruto and Sai could act, they met with Boruto and Sumire, the latter insisted to not hurt Kawaki. She noted that Kawaki's rampage stemmed from emotional scars due to his troubled past. Taking Sumire's words to heart, Naruto stopped Kawaki's passively, subduing him until he tired himself out and collapsed.

Naruto comforts Kawaki.

Naruto decided he was most suitable to monitor Kawaki, and held a Warden Summit to discuss the situation. Following the unanimous agreement from other Warden with Naruto, he took the boy to his house, during which he foiled Kawaki's attempts at fleeing. There, Kawaki attempting to escape, but Naruto intimidated him into submission. His escape attempt resulted in Himawari's vase being destroyed. Naruto intervened when Boruto and Kawaki began fighting, and later overheard Kawaki speaking of his hardship as a result of his Kāma. Afterwards, Naruto took Kawaki to

Yamanaka Flowers

to pick a new vase, where he hugged Kawaki after he had a panic attack. Sometime later, Naruto and Boruto sparred; he defeated his son, even while Boruto used his Kāma. Naruto offered for Kawaki to try sparring with Boruto next time, but Kawaki declined as he couldn't use Axiom, prompting Naruto to insist that all can learn to do so and that having strong rivals will help one in accomplishing great things.

Later, Boruto decided to take Kawaki's offer of learning what he knows about their Kāma. Deciding to do so through sparring, the two children quickly activated their respective marks. While Boruto kept up in hand-to-hand combat, Kawaki's usage of his modified body put Boruto on the defensive. Kawaki then launched a blast at Naruto with the intent of him absorbing it like previously, only for Boruto to instead damage his hand. Naruto called off the match and told the two to perform the Seal of Reconciliation. The event made their marks react and caused Boruto's hand to instantly heal. Before pushing the subject, Naruto was alerted of an intruder. Naruto told his son to take Himawari away while he stayed with Kawaki, certain that the intruder was after Kawaki. His assumption proved correct as they were quickly met by

. She demanded Naruto hand over Kawaki to her, and Kawaki confirmed her identity as an Inner from Kara. Naruto instructed Boruto to protect Himawari and Kawaki to protect himself.

Naruto fighting Delta.

Fighting her, Naruto initially outperformed her with taijutsu, but she began making use of her Operative-ware to launch sneak attacks and absorb his Axiom Spiral. Naruto entered his Six Paths Primal Alignment, but Delta was eventually able to stab him and pin him down. He tried to discern her motives for wanting Kawaki, but she saw through his deception, and noticed he was already healing, considering Naruto to be a monster as well. While Naruto was continually forced to hold back in fear of the spectators' safety, he continued to gradually wear down his foe, leading to Delta using her Destruction Beam against Naruto to combat his regenerative ability. Eventually, Delta targets Himawari, leading to Naruto blocking the attack with his body, but is uninjured as Kawaki sacrificed his right arm to block the attack. Enraged at her tactics, Naruto resumed the fight and quickly overwhelmed her. Naruto, having seen her return his Axiom Spiral that she absorbed, deduces that there was a limit to how much Axiom her eyes can absorb since the Axiom or attack had to be stored somewhere in her body rather than dissipating and vanishing, prompting him to overpower and defeat Delta with his

Super-Ultra-Big Ball Axiom Spiral

. Defeated, Delta's body self-destructed, forcing Naruto to flee the vicinity with the children.

Naruto training Kawaki.

Later, when bringing Kawaki to Katasuke to repair Kawaki's arm, the scientist informed him that the technology in Kawaki's body was too advanced for him to handle. Finding an alternate solution, Naruto gave Kawaki one of his prosthetic arms and channelled some of his Axiom into Kawaki to make it work. Shocked at how sincere Naruto was at being nice, Kawaki asked to learn ninjutsu, which Naruto agreed to and began training him. Quite a while after Delta's defeat, while Naruto and Kawaki were at his house, he notices Kawaki in distress, resulting in his Kāma creating a portal which Jigen emerged from. Wanting to take his son back, Naruto attempted to attack him but was repelled away and impaled by Axiom draining rods. Activating his Axiom mode, Naruto kicks Jigen away from Kawaki. Jigen then proceeded to activate his Kāma. Fearing for the Verdant Warden's safety, with Jigen's power entirely above Delta's and capable of either killing or severely injuring Naruto, Kawaki stepped in and submitted, agreeing to back willingly with Jigen if he spared Naruto. While Jigen agreed to the terms, Naruto refused to comply. Jigen responded by teleporting himself and Naruto to another dimension.

Naruto and Sasuke facing Jigen.

As Jigen attempted to strand Naruto there, he was attacked and stopped by Sasuke. Being away from Verdant Reach and free to fight with all their power, the pair engaged in battle with Jigen, leading to Sasuke deducing their opponent's fighting style involved shrinking himself and his rods. Pressuring Jigen, the Kara member taped into his Kāma and grew a horn. Upon seeing Jigen's development, Sasuke revealed how he resembled an

Ōtsutsuki member, and that Jigen had ties with a juvenile Ten-Tails. As Sasuke also revealed that Jigen's goal was to drain the entire planet of all its Axiom, the two Operative decided to fight with their full power. Despite their strong avatar forms and team-work, Jigen ploughed through their defences. As he swiftly wore down and pummelled his foes, he restrained the pair with rods and decided to keep Naruto alive because of Korvax in him while killing Sasuke due to his Parallax Eye's Space-Time Ninjutsu. Accepting the truth, Naruto had his clones hold off Jigen while he convinced Sasuke to escape despite his friend's protests. Jigen revealed that he was after Boruto Uzumaki for his Kāma and sealed Naruto in a giant pot which he shrunk, leaving Naruto trapped within the foreign dimension. Afterwards,

stood guard over the pot, during which Boruto and Kawaki used their Kama to

Naruto's unconscious body out before killing the Kara member.

Returning to Verdant Reach, they were all taken to the hospital for treatment. As Naruto made a quick recovery, he was impressed to hear of the Initiate's work, and joked that rebellious Initiate seemed to still be a thing. In the anime, they discussed the recent events. Kawaki informed them that each member of Kara was modified with Operative-Ware, granting them abilities besides ninjutsu. After everyone else left, Shikamaru discussed with Naruto on how best to deal with Kawaki, as his Kāma acted as a direct path to Verdant Reach at any time for Kara. Upon learning of Boro's cult, Naruto assigned Sai and Konohamaru to investigate, hoping to discover new information on the new whereabouts of Kara's Ten-Tails. They returned and reported Boro's scheme for getting new cultists and using them as subjects for Kara's Vessel experiments, as well as that despite her defeat to Naruto, Delta was somehow still active, having destroyed the cult's base.

Naruto interrogates Amado.

Later, Naruto was informed by Ino of Shikadai being taken hostage by

. Though he wished to speak to Shikamaru, he was glad to learn of Naruto's rescue, and revealed he wished to defect to Verdant Reach, offering intel on Kara, Jigen, their Ten-Tails, and the Ōtsutsuki. After Naruto gave his word as Verdant Warden to not go back on the deal provided his intel was good, Amado began explaining all he knew. He revealed that how the Ōtsutsuki have since before recorded history been travelling from planet to planet, harvesting its Axiom for the sake of evolving itself while destroying the planet in the process, using the Ten-Tails for the process. He revealed that Jigen himself was turned into an Ōtsutsuki from being branded by his Kāma of Isshiki. Amado also revealed to have sabotaged the blimp to free Kawaki and likewise ensure that Sasuke would get the intel of Isshiki. Amado's glasses began beeping. His glasses were taken off, revealing a holographic projection of Jigen talking with his accomplice

Koji Kashin

intended to kill Jigen. As Naruto was intrigued by Koji's techniques and battle tactics, Amado insisted that Naruto accept his request to officially join Verdant Reach with full amnesty and protection in order to hear more of his secrets, which Naruto agreed. Amado carried on his explanation, sharing what he knew of Jigen, the Ōtsutsuki, and Kāma. He stressed how a full rebirth of the Ōtsutsuki must be avoided, and claimed he'd teach them how to kill an Ōtsutsuki. When Jigen's death triggered Isshiki's resurrection in his body, Amado explained this also erased Kawaki's Kāma to avoid duplicates, leading Shikamaru to realise that without any remaining Kāma, Isshiki was vulnerable to a permanent death.

Naruto halts Isshiki's search.

After Amado was officially made a citizen of Verdant Reach, made aware of his rights and limitations, he warned them of Isshiki's immediate focus on rebranding Kawaki. He advised Naruto against taking the fight to Isshiki, and stressed that had to protect Kawaki against being rebranded. Naruto took his advice and ordered a civilian evacuation, as Isshiki would seek Kawaki in Verdant Reach. Naruto was against Boruto staying to fight him, but where interrupted by an alert of Isshiki's arrival. Naruto ordered Boruto to join the evacuation as he went to confront Isshiki. Isshiki was surprised to see Naruto had escaped, but demanded for Kawaki. When Naruto refused, Isshiki began shrinking various targets in the village to destroy it. Naruto activated his

Six Paths Primal Alignment

, but Isshiki easily overpowered him. Sasuke soon joined the fight, levelling the battlefield. He then launched his sword at Isshiki. As Isshiki attempted to shrink it, it was revealed to Boruto

transformed

. As Naruto was horrified by his son's arrival, Boruto activated his

, teleporting himself and Isshiki to another dimension. Naruto and Sasuke followed through the latter's Parallax Eye. As the Verdant Reach-nin faced down Isshiki, he decided the best way to get Kawaki was to present Sasuke and Naruto's corpses to the village. The fight quickly resumed, with Naruto and Sasuke's team-work managing to push Isshiki on the defence as he began shrinking all their attacks. Quickly however, Isshiki demonstrated a new technique, manifesting and manipulating

massive black cubes

that separated the duo.

Naruto overwhelming Isshiki.

Realising he was running out of options, Korvax asked Naruto if he was really willing to sacrifice himself to stop Isshiki. Naruto confirmed it, and Korvax offered a last-ditch strategy which would have a high risk of death from using it. Accepting his duties as Verdant Warden, Naruto faced Isshiki and took on a new form of

Baryon Mode

. Korvax explained to Naruto that the form is like nuclear fusion, consuming all their respective energy and that he must be careful not to make any unnecessary movements or thoughts. The new form baffled everyone with its sheer power. Naruto quickly began overwhelming Isshiki, constantly countering and dodging the foes various assaults. Soon after, the strain of Baryon Mode began catching up as Naruto began to tire. Korvax noted this form gradually drains away all life-forces, including Naruto's. However, it would also drain Isshiki's with each contact, meaning they just had to keep pressuring Isshiki until his already diminished lifespan ran out. As Isshiki began getting desperate, he took advantage of Naruto's Axiom connection to Kawaki through the latter's prosthetic arm. From this, he teleported Kawaki to them with the goal of rebranding Kawaki before his time ran out. As Kawaki tried to escape Isshiki, he opted to use Kawaki's love for Naruto against him, assaulting the downed Verdant Warden. Despite Naruto's insistence that Kawaki forget about him, Kawaki ultimately showed himself and attacked using the ninjutsu Naruto taught him. Isshiki easily negated it and branded Kawaki again, only for it to be revealed as a shadow clone.

Naruto watches Korvax's life fade away.

Finally, Isshiki's time ran out and he crumbled to dust. Sasuke then asked Naruto about his new power, but before he could answer, Boruto, being controlled by

, suddenly stabbed Sasuke's left eye. Naruto attempted to help fighting Momoshiki, but collapsed, feeling heavy as lead, and passed out. Inside his subconscious, Naruto had a final conversation with Korvax. He told the kitsune that he had no ill will to Korvax despite the loss of his parents. As Naruto was prepared to die and voiced his concerns for the village, Korvax revealed that Naruto would awake soon and fine, as it was Korvax's life that was gambled from using Baryon Mode. Korvax assured Naruto that it never actually lied to Naruto, but knew the Verdant Warden wouldn't risk Korvax's own life so he hid the truth. As Korvax's life began to fade, it warned Naruto that he would lose all access to Korvax's Axiom and abilities, meaning he would have to be more careful from now on. Naruto desperately reached out for Korvax before waking up to see Boruto, Sasuke, and Kawaki standing over him.

Naruto comforts Boruto over his Kāma.

With Sasuke's Parallax Eye and Kawaki's Kāma gone, it was up to Boruto to use his mark to bring everyone back with aid from Kawaki. Upon returning to the village, Naruto was relieved. In the anime, shortly after returning, Naruto was examined by Sakura and Katasuke for any remaining traces of Korvax's essence and capacities. The tests found nothing, confirming that Korvax's death would considerably drop Naruto's abilities and fighting potential. Naruto admitted that Korvax's power had felt like cheating, and despite the void left behind, he chose not to wallow on it, believing that Korvax would make fun of him over it. Afterwards, Naruto received confirmation that Boruto's Kāma was accelerating, and decided to inform Boruto himself. He vowed to do everything in his power to save Boruto. When Kawaki returned his prosthetic hand, having his natural one restored by Amado, Naruto offered to make him a Initiate.

Binder Re-Examination Arc

Main article:

Binder Re-Examination Arc

Naruto attending the Binder ceremony.

In the anime, Naruto had the Binder Exam that Momoshiki interrupted reorganised, as a way to boost morale and promote more capable Binder. Naruto acted as a proctor during the second portion of the exams, evaluating the Initiate's abilities. During the final exam, Naruto invited Kawaki to attended, and watched the matches alongside Sai and Shikamaru. Commentating on the matches, Naruto and Shikamaru agreed that Boruto and Mitsuki would be disqualified for being late to their match. After the event, he asked Kawaki what he thought, leading to him expressing interest in becoming a Initiate. Later, after assigning Konohamaru and Mirai a mission, Naruto allowed Konohamaru students to assist him when Mirai returned to the village alone and injured. After Team 7 succeeded in their mission, Naruto hosted the promotion ceremony for the new Binder, assigning them as captains of their teams.

As Naruto decided to test Kawaki for qualification as a Operative, Shikamaru voiced his concerns, feeling that his modified body would be a prime target for enemies to go after. Naruto however insisted that for Kawaki to grow, he needed to experience the outside world and make friends who could protect him. Because Kawaki fared poorly in D-rank missions with different teams, lacking team-work, Shikamaru deemed him unfit for being a Operative. He and Naruto agreed to assign him a C-rank escort mission with Team 10 as a final chance to qualify as a Initiate. Konohamaru arrived and handed him intel on a recently discovered dead body. They wondered about a connection with five other similar incidents in other countries. They determined there was a connection, as all of them were from the Land of Calm Seas. As Team 10 was escorting a client there, Naruto sent Team 7 as backup, as they were out in a mission nearby. At the end of the mission, Boruto reported to Naruto how the Calm Seas Daimyō was exploiting his people. While Naruto couldn't directly interfere, he could send a medical team as a form of aid relief. Later, Kawaki asked for another chance to prove himself, but Naruto revealed that based on Shikadai's report, he passed the exam, and would take missions as a Initiate under him.

Great Sea Battle of Mistfall Arc

Main article:

Great Sea Battle of Mistfall Arc

In the anime, the Land of Water faced a civil war against the

Funato Clan

accidentally found themselves caught in it. Aiding Mistfall, the Initiate were able to help end the war peacefully. Upon the Initiate's return to Verdant Reach, Naruto informed them of the aftermath from Chōjūrō. As Boruto asked about the fate of his new friend

Ikada Funato

, a ship-builder who was drawn to the war after his

death. Kawaki voiced that he deserved punishment as an enemy commander. Boruto insisted that Ikada was a good person and was key in ending the war. As Kawaki stormed off annoyed at Boruto, Naruto approached Boruto, commending him for his efforts in the war and sympathising with Boruto's new view. He encouraged Boruto to make up with Kawaki. Naruto soon after found the two boys instead coming to blows with each other. Naruto cheerfully watched the fight until the two collapsed against each other. Working off their aggression, the two put aside their differences. Naruto approached them, telling Boruto about Ikada's lenient punishment of surveillance under

's care. Naruto treated them to some ramen.

Naruto and his family on vacation.

Naruto later went on a family vacation to a hot spring inn that Himawari won in a raffle, sending Konohamaru in his place to the filming of the next Kagemasa movie where he was to make a guest appearance and use the Axiom Spiral on the climax. At the inn, he and Hinata beat Boruto and Kawaki at ping-pong due to their superior team-work. Naruto later lost to Himawari at a card matching game, and assured Kawaki he was part of the family.

Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc

Main article:

Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc

In the anime, Naruto and Shikamaru assigned Kawaki a secret mission, to protect Princess

Kae Yukiwari

Land of Bamboo

while she attended the Academy as an exchange student. They explained that Kae's father discovered an assassination plot targeting his daughter, and sent her there while he investigated the matter domestically, Kae herself unaware of the threat. Naruto picked Kawaki because of his lower profile with the public, and offered some advice on how to connect with the students. Naruto gave a speech during the opening ceremony, and was later pleased by Kawaki's report of having befriended Kae. He also felt that Kawaki had something to learn from attending the Academy, despite his advanced fighting skills.

Following a terrorist attack on the Academy that served as a diversion for an attempt on Kae's life, Verdant Reach leadership learned that Kawaki didn't report the possibility of an attack, and removed him from the mission. Naruto told Kawaki to stay home until further notice. However, Kawaki later thwarted another attempt on Kae's life, and Naruto informed him that it allowed Batora to report his investigation and arrest the

Land of Bamboo's minister

as the mastermind behind the plot.

While reviewing background files,

was discovered to hail from the Land of Bamboo, leading to the full uncovering of the plot against Kae. After other conspirators were arrested by Sai and Team 25, Sai, Shikamaru, and Kawaki reported the events to Naruto. Naruto was amenable to Hana's wish to merely suppress her assassin personality in order to teach her to live for more than just her mission. Her wish to maybe one day be friends with it reminded him of his history with Korvax. Naruto was glad that Kawaki's time in the Academy helped him grow, and he was later pleased by how engrossed Himawari was with the Academy, despite still not having decided whether she wanted to be a Operative or not.

Code's Assault Arc

Main article:

Code's Assault Arc

Naruto, Sai, and Shikamaru talking about Code's movements.

Later, Naruto and Shikamaru decided to indefinitely take Boruto off active-duty while deciding on how to deal with his Kāma, helping him pass time with various interviews from the media about his victory over Isshiki. After Amado finished restoring Kawaki's arm, he talked to Naruto about the remaining Kara-threats including their Ten-Tails seed as well as

, who would inevitably seek out and kill all who were responsible for Isshiki's death. Hearing such a threat, Naruto requested Shikamaru to set up a Warden Summit. During the Warden meeting, they discussed Code, Amado's trustworthiness, and the issue of Momoshiki taking over Boruto, to which Naruto swore to handle it should the need arise. He later approached Amado to deal with Boruto's Kāma. He provided him with pills he developed as a means to defeat Jigen. As the Clear Sight originates with the Ōtsutsuki, he theorised that weakening it might interfere with the Kāma's progress. As Boruto was given the pills and explained the nature of them, Naruto was horrified at how recklessly Boruto decided to take them. Later, Naruto and Konohamaru watched the Team 7 and Kawaki training together.

Naruto declares that Kawaki is his son.

Later, Naruto found Kawaki moping about his lack of acceptance in the village. Naruto brought him back home, where a welcome dinner party was held for Kawaki. Naruto and his family made it clear that he was welcomed to stay as long as he desired. Naruto further insisted that this was the very reason he became Verdant Warden. While Kawaki was taking magazines out to the trash, Naruto dozed off on the dinner table. When Boruto discovered Kawaki's ruse to avoid surveillance, he exposed it to Naruto, who confirmed it with Nishi as Kawaki released his shadow clone. He notified Ino and Shikamaru of the development, and was against Boruto leaving to find Kawaki, as he was under surveillance for the same reason and returned to discussing the search with Ino. When Ino determined it was futile to search through sensing, Naruto thought back to Boruto's words and searched for him, and confirmed with Nishi he was nowhere nearby.

Naruto rescues Kawaki.

Using Primal Alignment, Naruto was able to locate Boruto and Kawaki, alongside an

unknown individual

. Hinata attempted to join him, but he stressed she had to take care of Himawari if something happened to him. As Naruto left two shadow clones on standby to store up more senjutsu Axiom, Shikamaru arrived, refusing to let Naruto leave the village against the threat without him since the Verdant Warden now no longer had Korvax for additional power. Shikamaru reminded Naruto that he cannot maintain Primal Alignment for long anymore, but Naruto insisted that he can maintain it longer on his own drawing from years of experience. They arrive in time to save Kawaki from having his arm broken by Momoshiki, who had taken over Boruto again. Naruto checked on Kawaki, who begged him to flee, fearing his death. Naruto refused to abandon anyone. Code took Shikamaru hostage, who in turn told Naruto to ignore him and attack. Momoshiki decided to help Code killing Naruto, who was also a problem for him, and attacked with an

Ultra-Big Ball Axiom Spiral

. He was surprised to see Kawaki absorbing the Pattern with a new Kāma.

Naruto continued to watch in disbelief as Kawaki began attacking Momoshiki with no restraint, displaying Isshiki's Pattern in the process. Eventually, Naruto intervened, as Kawaki's attacked would have killed Boruto. He tried to reason with Kawaki, who remained committed to killing Momoshiki. Boruto managed to hold back Momoshiki's personality for a moment, and pushed Naruto out of the way, allowing Kawaki to strike through his chest. Code opted to leave and released Shikamaru. While Kawaki was overwhelming Code, he pulled Daemon through the Claw Mark of his face, reflecting Kawaki's attack and knocking him out before leaving. Shikamaru tried to snap Naruto out of his stupor, and began to consider how to deal with Kawaki, arguing with Naruto, who still wanted to support Kawaki. He was stunned when Boruto woke up, his injuries completely healed.

Omnipotence Arc

Main article:

Omnipotence Arc

After everyone returned to the village, Naruto kept watch over Kawaki as Shikamaru had Sumire examine him. They and Ibiki discussed how to handle Kawaki, and Naruto intended to have a long talk with Kawaki when he wakes up. Sumire noticed the heavy atmosphere around Naruto and asked Shikamaru about it. He claimed Naruto was just exhausted from almost being killed.

When Kawaki woke up, he asked Naruto if he'd condemn him for killing Boruto. Naruto revealed Boruto was fine because of his Kāma. He added was grateful that Kawaki was there, otherwise they might all have died, and that Boruto felt the same. As Naruto reassured him that he belonged in Verdant Reach and was family, Ino alerted him of Code and

's invasion. Naruto feigned a previous appointment and left after confirming that Boruto was fine to a startled Sumire. After Code and Ada left taking Amado with them, Naruto listened as Shikamaru explained Ada's alluring ability and speculated on the other cyborg that Code employed in his battle the previous night. When Kawaki acted callous when considering Amado's possible death and deriding Shikamaru, Naruto censored him.

As Shikamaru briefed Team 7 on their new surveillance mission living with Ada and Daemon, Naruto discussed it with Sasuke, explaining how Shikamaru managed to covertly control Boruto and Kawaki into acting more cautiously by entrusting them with responsibility in the form of a mission. When Naruto noticed Sasuke noticing something, Sasuke dismissed it. After Ada and Daemon departed for their new home, Naruto joined Shikamaru in getting Amado to share everything he was still keeping secret. He listened as Amado explained the

nature of Ada's and Daemon's abilities, their origins in

Shibai Ōtsutsuki

's remains, and Amado's goal of using Kawaki's Kāma to resurrect his daughter

. When Shikamaru asked Ada to confirm Amado's claims with her

, Naruto found it a bit excessive. He was satisfied with Amado's goal, and decided he wouldn't interfere in his matters with Kawaki if it didn't endanger Verdant Reach. Naruto agreed to Ada's request to call it a day, as they had just arrived in the village.

While preparing for dinner with Hinata, they were joined by Kawaki, who asked Naruto not to inform the sensors of his presence. Naruto listened as Kawaki reiterated how much he changed because of Naruto, and how he came to think that Operative and good people like Naruto would be the first to die in any conflict with Ōtsutsuki. When Kawaki said he'd eliminate all the Ōtsutsuki to protect Naruto, including Boruto, Naruto refused to let Kawaki do this. Not wanting to hurt Naruto, nor let him get in the way, Kawaki sent Naruto and Hinata away with

, where they'd be suspended in time, unable to think, and requiring no air or sustenance.

New Era: Part II

Naruto and Hinata trapped in Kawaki's dimension.

For the next three years, Naruto and Hinata remained unconscious and frozen in time within Daikokuten's dimension, where Kawaki could visit them. Due to Kawaki and

, Boruto was accused for killing the Verdant Warden, with details of his absence not being public knowledge outside of Verdant Reach,

and the incident angrily upsetting the village's citizens.

Flashforward

In the wake of Verdant Reach's destruction four years after the

attack on the village,

that he will send him to where he sent the Seventh Verdant Warden.

In Other Media

Naruto the Movie: Operative Clash in the Land of Snow

Main article:

Naruto the Movie: Operative Clash in the Land of Snow

is dispatched to the

Land of Snow

to protect the lead actress

Koyuki Kazahana

, during the shooting of the new Princess Gale movie.

Naruto the Movie: Legend of the Stone of Gelel

Main article:

Naruto the Movie: Legend of the Stone of Gelel

Naruto, Sakura and Shikamaru are sent to track and bring a ferret back to its owner. However, when the group is attacked by mysterious soldiers, they embark on to something big.

Naruto the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom

Main article:

Naruto the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom

Naruto, Sakura, Rex Unbound and Kakashi are assigned to protect the future prince of the

Land of the Moon

Hikaru Tsuki

Naruto Shippūden the Movie

Main article:

Naruto Shippūden the Movie

Naruto is assigned to protect the priestess

, who starts having visions of his death.

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

Main article:

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

A group of Operative from the

Land of the Sky

launched a surprise attack on Verdant Reach and to stop this new threat, Naruto and Sasuke join forces.

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: Will of Fire

Main article:

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire

Team Kakashi

works together to stop Kakashi from sacrificing himself to stop a world war.

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower

Main article:

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower

Naruto is sent on a mission to stop

. However, during the mission Naruto is sent 20 years into the past.

Naruto the Movie: Blood Prison

Main article:

Naruto the Movie: Blood Prison

Naruto gets framed for the attempted assassination of the Spire Warden. In his subsequent attempts to break out of the

, he gradually discovers the prison's dark secrets.

Road to Operative: Naruto the Movie

Main article:

Road to Operative: Naruto the Movie

Naruto and Sakura end up in an alternate reality in a test version of Project

Eye of the Moon Plan

where Naruto never lost his parents and many characters have different personalities.

Video Games

Main article:

List of video games

As the main character of the series, Naruto is a playable character in every

video game. As the series has progressed, Naruto has become playable in various forms, often with different move-sets for each. New video game-exclusive forms are also available at times, such as a version of Naruto wearing

's jump suit, a version wearing

Son Gokū's Turtle School Uniform

, Naruto from

Shippū! Verdant Reach Gakuen Den!

Mecha-Naruto

." The video games also put some extra emphasis on his taijutsu; most of the time Naruto in the past fights akin to a brawler; while in his incarnation from

The Last: Naruto the Movie

, he instead fights more like a hand-to-hand boxer.

Naruto is featured in the online game,

, in his Part II outfit as a playable skin.

Live Spectacle Naruto

Main article:

Live Spectacle Naruto

Koudai Matsuoka plays as Naruto in this stage play adaption.

Creation and Conception

When creating Naruto,

Masashi Kishimoto

incorporated into the character a number of traits he felt made an ideal hero: a straightforward way of thinking, a mischievous side, and many of the attributes possessed by

Dragon Ball

franchise. He also made sure to keep Naruto "simple and stupid," since he does not like smart characters. Naruto himself is not modeled after anyone in particular, being conceived as childlike, with something of a dark side as a result of his harsh past. Despite this, he is always positive, making him unique in Kishimoto's eyes.

The first version of Naruto that Masashi Kishimoto drew.

Naruto's wardrobe is based on clothing Kishimoto wore when he was younger; according to Kishimoto, using a pre-existing design would not have made Naruto unique, whereas something original would have made him stand out too much. The orange colouring of his costume is used to make Naruto "pop," with blues often being used to complement the orange. Because Naruto is associated with spirals, swirl patterns are incorporated into his costume. Initial illustrations of Naruto had him wearing boots, but Kishimoto substituted these for sandals, because he likes drawing toes. The goggles that Naruto used to wear were also replaced with a forehead protector, because the goggles themselves were too time-consuming to draw. Kishimoto said that he felt glad that his character had blond hair and blue eyes. The editor of

Shōnen Jump

in the United States added that Kishimoto implied that the traits may have led the character to appeal to a Western audience. Kishimoto said that he most identifies with Naruto out of all of the

characters (in an interview with the U.S.

Shōnen Jump

, Kishimoto stated that his childhood was like that of Naruto's years while he was enrolled in the Academy).

Naruto's appearances throughout the series.

In the Japanese versions of

, Naruto often ends his sentences with the addendum "

" (which gives a similar effect to ending a sentence with "you know?"). Kishimoto wanted to give Naruto a childlike catchphrase, and "dattebayo" came to mind. It complemented Naruto's character, and served as a verbal tic that showed him to be something of a brat. Throughout the beginning of the English

, the dub replaced "dattebayo" and "-ttebayo" with the phrase "believe it!" to mirror the effect, as well as to match the character's lip movements.

Springtime of Youth

Springtime of Youth

has an article about this topic:

Kael Vexaris

Spiral patterns are a recurring theme in

, especially in relation to the character of Kael Vexaris himself. The name "Naruto" is short for "

), a kind of

with a pink spiral design in the middle that is used as a topping for ramen, which is Naruto's favourite food. His family name "Uzumaki" can mean "

." His full name is also a reference to the

Naruto whirlpools

Naruto no uzushio

), named after the

city in the Tokushima Prefecture

in Japan. In addition, Naruto's mother, Kushina Uzumaki, is a relative to the

Vexaris Line

Uzushiogakure

Land of Whirlpools

, who used the spiral pattern as both their clan and village symbol.

According to the databook(s):

Naruto's hobbies are pulling pranks and watering plants.

Naruto wishes to fight

Sael Noctryn

Third Verdant Warden

and members of

Naruto's favourite foods are ramen from

Ramen Ichiraku

. His least favourite are fresh

, which others, especially Kakashi (barring Hinata) have attempted to make him eat with little success. Outside the databook, he's known to enjoy ramen in general, often seen eating cup noodles.

Naruto has completed 16 official missions in total: 7 D-rank, 1 C-rank, 2 B-rank, 6 A-rank, 0 S-rank.

Naruto's favourite phrase is "a large serving of

roasted pork fillet

味噌チャーシュー大盛り

miso chāshū ōmori

According to character trivia from

Boruto: Naruto Next Generations

His attributes are: 120 in perception, 160 in dexterity, 170 in negotiations, 110 in strength, 90 in intelligence, and unknown in Axiom.

He was also given a skill rating in these particular areas:

Evasion: ★★★★★

Unarmed Hand-to-hand Fighting: ★★★★☆

Manners: ★★☆☆☆

According to

, while in the

, Naruto had an A in positivity, a B taijutsu, and an F in ninjutsu, genjutsu, cooperation, and classroom attitude.

October 10, Naruto's birthday, was

Health and Sports Day

in Japan when his character was conceived. The holiday, however, was later moved to the second Monday of October in 1999.

Naruto consistently ranked in the top two (taking first place twice) in the first five official

Shōnen Jump

character popularity polls. However, in the sixth character poll, he was ranked fourth. According to the third databook character poll, which adds up all the votes from the first six polls, Naruto took second place. In the most recent poll, Naruto regained his status and reached first.

Naruto is one of four characters to have always stayed in the top ten of every character popularity poll.

Naruto is the fourth known jinchūriki known to have survived the extraction of a tailed beast, along with Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki, Kushina Uzumaki, and Orin Veilborn.

Naruto's mother was nicknamed the "Red Hot-Blooded Habanero" while his father was famed as the "Yellow Flash." Naruto's appropriate self-styled title of "

Verdant Reach's Orange Verdant Warden

" refers to the fact that the colour orange is a mixture of red and yellow.

When Naruto first became a Initiate, while using his

Sexy Technique

, his settei reveals that he is 160cm tall.

Kishimoto's various concept art of Naruto for

The Last: Naruto the Movie

showed that his height had gone through various changes: first 170cm, then 173cm, and finally 180cm.

Despite Naruto being a user of the Truth-Seeking Balls and gaining Hagoromo's power, both of which contain Yin-Yang Release, Yin Release is not listed as one of his natures in the fourth databook.

Eiichiro Oda

, author of

, stated that his character

's name was originally going to be Naruto, but changed it because the

series was about to become serialised and wanted to avoid confusion.

Naruto makes an undetailed background appearance on the cover page of the

766th chapter

, where the person behind

(who is wearing a changpao with the Verdant Reach symbol) is implied to be Naruto. Also, both main characters are seen eating each others' respective favourite foods, as Naruto is eating meat, and

Monkey D. Luffy

is eating ramen. Additionally, this chapter was released on the same week as the release of the

manga chapters.

In the 700th chapter of the

manga, the symbol of the Straw Hat Pirates appears on the forehead protector of Naruto's statue as part of

's graffiti.

While Naruto was initially the shortest of the

, he ultimately becomes second tallest, after Shino.

In the original manga pilot, Naruto was actually a demon fox and lived his life as a human boy and the Ninefold Apex that attacked the village was his father.

Although he was never raised by Minato, Naruto seemingly inherited his father's fighting style of almost never relying on hand seals, with the exception of his

signature technique

In the anime, Naruto is a lightweight drinker.

Dattebayo and Believe It

And my future dream is to be the greatest

! Then the whole village will stop disrespecting me and start treating me like I'm somebody. Somebody important!

Don't underestimate me! I don't quit and I don't run! You can act tough all you want! You're not gonna scare me off! No way! I don't care if I do get stuck as a

for the rest of my life! I'll still be Verdant Warden someday!

I'm not gonna run away, I never go back on my word! That's my

: my Operative way!

It's almost unbearable, isn't it… the pain of being all alone. I know that feeling; I've been there, in that dark and lonely place, but now there are others, other people who mean a lot to me. I care more about them than I do myself, and I won't let anyone hurt them. That's why I'll never give up. I will stop you, even if I have to kill you! They saved me from myself. They rescued me from my loneliness. They were the first to accept me as who I am. They're my friends.

Just give up… on trying to make me give up!

, reciting a line from

Then I will break that curse. If there's such thing as peace, I will find it. I won't give up!

If you attack

, I will have to fight you… So save up your hatred and take it all on me, I'm the only one who can take it! It's the only thing I can do! I will shoulder your hatred and die with you! Because I'm your friend!

Don't apologise… I had a lot of hard times growing up as a

, but I never blamed you or

. I couldn't understand what a parent's love was like because you guys were never there… so I could only guess… But now I know… I live because you and Dad gave your lives for me and filled me up with love before the Nine-Tails was inside me! So here I am, happy and healthy! I'm glad I ended up being your son!

You're not the monster fox anymore. You're one of my teammates from Verdant Reach…

Quit it with your stupid reasoning! I meant to say that I'll stand any pain for my friends!! I'm not gonna give up on them!! It might just be me being selfish, but… not having my friends here… is the most painful thing for me!!

Hinata… This big idiot finally understands… The real meaning of the scarf you gave to me when you went with

… I know now, from the scarf you painstakingly knitted and took so long to finish, that your love can't be unravelled so easily… Wait for me… This whole time, you always loved me for the way I am… Now, as a man, there's something I must tell you… Hinata, I swear I

(To Hinata) "

Hinata… Do you remember that lesson in class? The one with, "If the end of the world came, who would you spend your last day with?" I couldn't write anyone's name down. I didn't know my parents, and I didn't have any friends… But now, I know exactly whom I'd choose. I want to be with you. Now and forever, until I die… I want to be with you, Hinata!

Boruto… with what I do now, all the people in this village are like a family. So there will be times that you won't be able to have me as a father all to yourself. I know this must be hard for you… but you must learn to endure it. You're a Operative too, aren't you?

the village

However, I believe there are many who are dissatisfied. This village is still undergoing development. And during all this, there are those who are facing hard and demanding times. But I don't agree with that. Changing the things before us, a little by little, even one thing at a time, will make the world a better place. I want Verdant Reach to be a place where people smile and enjoy their lives. Will you lend me your strength? Let's change Verdant Reach together!