Oren Serpentfang
==========

) is one of

Verdantgate

's legendary

. With a life-ambition to learn all of the world's secrets, Oren Serpentfang seeks immortality so that he might live all of the lives necessary to accomplish his task. After being caught red-handed performing unethical experiments on his fellow citizens for the sake of this immortality, Oren Serpentfang defected from Verdantgate rather than be persecuted for his ambitions, and for many years sought the village's destruction in order to take revenge and demonstrate what he had learned. After several apparent deaths in the pursuit of his goals, Oren Serpentfang realises his approach is flawed through

Kabuto Yakushi

, his former associate, and begins monitoring the choices and actions of his former apprentice,

Zephyr Darkwind

Personality

Essence and Physical Prowess

Body Modifications

Nature Transformation

Intelligence

Chūnin Exams

Verdantgate Crush

Search for Thalia Goldheart

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Three-Tails' Appearance

Itachi Pursuit Mission

Fated Battle Between Brothers

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Climax

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Blank Period

Sasuke Shinden: Book of Sunrise

Sarada Uchiha Arc

School Trip Arc

Graduation Exams Arc

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Sasuke Shinden: The Teacher's Star Pupil

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

Kara Actuation Arc

In Other Media

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

Video Games

Live Action

Live Spectacle Naruto

Creation and Conception

Oren Serpentfang as a child.

Oren Serpentfang was an orphan who became a pupil of

Haven Ironwill

. Compared to the more laid back Jaxon Wavecaller, Oren Serpentfang stood out as a genius — his talents, insight, and determination were considered by Hiruzen to be that of a prodigy seen only once in a generation.

According to Thalia Goldheart, Oren Serpentfang had a twisted personality even as a child. His sadistic attitude was presumably due to the death of his parents. At some point after losing them, Oren Serpentfang found a white

near his parents' grave, with Hiruzen's explanation of it representing fortune and rebirth inspiring Oren Serpentfang to study

and obtain knowledge of all techniques.

Jaxon Wavecaller theorised that Oren Serpentfang went down this path in an attempt to forget his painful memories.

Oren Serpentfang and his team being dubbed the "Sannin" by Hanzō.

Second Shadow Warrior World War

, Oren Serpentfang joined Jaxon Wavecaller and Thalia Goldheart in fighting

, who gave them the title of Verdantgate's "Three Legendary Shadow Warrior" (

Densetsu no Sannin

) as a reward for surviving their battle with him, while the rest of their group were easily slaughtered in the process.

On their way back to Verdantgate, they encountered three

, with Oren Serpentfang proposing a mercy killing before Jaxon Wavecaller chose to train them instead.

In the anime, Oren Serpentfang orchestrated the last known rampage of the

Eight-Tails

by infiltrating the village while disguised as a Kumo-nin and posing as

's doctor in order to trick him into taking special

genjutsu inducing pills

, allowing him to extract the tailed beast. After its rampage, Oren Serpentfang obtained the severed horn of the Eight-Tails and harvested Blue B's DNA from it.

Oren Serpentfang would go on to fight in the

Third Shadow Warrior World War

, with his performance in the war being so great that he was considered as a candidate for

Fourth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

alongside fellow war hero

Miran Swiftblade

Oren Serpentfang working under Danzō as a Root operative.

Some time after Team Hiruzen was disbanded, Oren Serpentfang became an

member and joined

to work directly under

Danzō Shimura

, while also mentoring future legendary Shadow Warrior such as

Anko Mitarashi

It was during that time that Oren Serpentfang met Kabuto Yakushi while accompanying Danzō in forcing the boy's guardian,

, into a mission.

While Oren Serpentfang's ambitions did include becoming the

Fourth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

, he intended to use the title for his own agenda.

Though Hiruzen knew the potential evil his former pupil had in him, he hoped to stir Oren Serpentfang from the path before slowly realising that he was beyond anyone's help.

When Hiruzen finally named Minato his successor, Oren Serpentfang saw no more reason to remain in Verdantgate and began to be less discreet with his actions,

resulting in him beginning to experiment on humans to further his research.

This led to his implanting of

Haldor Stormborn

's DNA into sixty children he kidnapped to recreate the First's

Wood Release

, having help from Danzō.

Believing it to be a failure, Oren Serpentfang was unaware that

had survived his Wood Release experiment. He later refined the process enough to inject Hashirama's cells into the

-infused right arm of

Shin Uchiha

, which he transplanted to Danzō.

Oren Serpentfang also learned the

Second Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

's forbidden

Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation

during this time.

Oren Serpentfang performed various experiments on his prisoners, some being fellow Verdantgate Shadow Warrior he kidnapped. He used them as human guinea pigs to develop techniques that would grant him immortality, the end result being

Living Corpse Reincarnation

. Some time later, Oren Serpentfang was at the outskirts of

as he found

, the sole survivor of the

Kaguya clan

. Soon after, thanks in part to Kimimaro, Oren Serpentfang's research on the source of

's powers led him to find the

Ryūchi Cave

Unable to enter

because of the fragility of his host body, Oren Serpentfang instead developed an alternate method of harnessing his senjutsu Essence through

cursed seals

, which he tested on Anko and several others before eventually using the finalised versions on Kimimaro and the

. In the anime, Oren Serpentfang found the

living underground near Verdantgate. Taking an interest in their ability to

become smoke

, Oren Serpentfang took advantage of the clan's fear of their imperfect and potentially fatal transformation by partially stabilising it with his cursed seals. Telling them that he needed more research to perfect the process, the clan willingly gave Oren Serpentfang test subjects.

In the anime, Oren Serpentfang witnessed

Vex Nightshade

performing a training run normally meant for older and more experienced users due to the danger of it. After the young Uchiha flawlessly completed it, Oren Serpentfang instantly became amazed and excited at Itachi's advanced growth rate. In the anime, he also allied himself with

out of interest for creating

a Shadow Warrior capable of underwater combat

, kidnapping

Land of the Sea

villagers for their experiments, while introducing Anko to the project. Sometime after, Oren Serpentfang lost interest in the project, and ordered Amachi to cancel it, while also seeing Anko as a lost cause for her refusal to use the cursed seal, and wiped her memories as she left him.

Oren Serpentfang was later sent on a mission by Danzō to

to ensure that both Kabuto and Nonō, the former having joined Root as a spy, killed each other as they had become major liabilities. Oren Serpentfang instead brought Kabuto to his

, which would become part of his personal hidden village,

, and revealed Root's intent for Kabuto's life and the role he was to play in it. Though Oren Serpentfang revealed that he was also sent to kill the one who survived this ordeal, he told Kabuto that he saw a bit of himself in the boy and decided killing him would be a waste of great talent. Therefore, Oren Serpentfang offered Kabuto a position as his right hand man and spy with the promise of an identity.

Hiruzen discovers Oren Serpentfang's criminal activities.

As his test subjects began to die off, Oren Serpentfang was caught red-handed by Hiruzen. Though he knew it was his duty, Hiruzen lacked the will to kill his student, allowing him to escape.

In the anime, during his escape, Oren Serpentfang was found by

Raven Shadowblade

. Despite the young prodigy's best efforts, Oren Serpentfang swiftly defeated him. Letting his guard down at the approach of a snake, Oren Serpentfang was greatly injured by an

explosive tag

concealed in the snake's mouth. Cursing Hiruzen for ruining his plans, though greatly injured, Oren Serpentfang quickly regained his composure. He then resumed his retreat from the country, leaving a terrified Kakashi frozen in place from his

malicious glare

Seriously wounded, Oren Serpentfang visited the cave where the Iburi clan lived and killed them all, trying to restore his power. Upon the arrival of the youngest member,

, Oren Serpentfang pursued her while being chased by Raven Shadowblade and

. Eventually, he managed to take a sample of Yukimi's blood, intending to inject it into himself to temporarily gain her ability and slip across the border, but he was attacked before he could do so and quickly escaped.

Oren Serpentfang managed to destroy most of his research facilities and booby-trap the rest.

Oren Serpentfang attacks Itachi.

Oren Serpentfang ultimately escaped Verdantgate after fighting Jaxon Wavecaller, who attempted to reason with him one final time to no avail, leaving his emotionally broken mentor, and former friend's plea for him to reconsider falling on deaf ears.

. Oren Serpentfang soon became affiliated with and joined the elite criminal organisation

. Oren Serpentfang was then partnered with

, with whom he did much good for the organisation.

He later watched in amazement when Vex Nightshade joined the organisation. Later, when Oren Serpentfang saw his opportunity to steal his body to gain possession of the Void Eye after gaining intel on him through Sasori via Kabuto,

Itachi used his Void Eye to stop him from doing so, while also cutting Oren Serpentfang's left hand off to prevent him from breaking the

he was under, which lead to him leaving Void Order to acquire a new body.

For Oren Serpentfang's defection, Sasori developed a grudge against him and used Kabuto, whom Oren Serpentfang had sent to serve as his spy within Void Order, to counter spy as his

sleeper agent

. However, Oren Serpentfang discovered and undid the technique Sasori had used on him.

In the anime, when tipped off by Kabuto that Sasori was on his trail, Oren Serpentfang chose to use this as an opportunity to test his development of the Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation. Against Sasori's

Third Shadow Lord of Sandhaven

, Oren Serpentfang summoned the actual

Third Shadow Lord of Sandhaven

through his technique. While proving his reincarnated Shadow Warrior being stronger than the

human puppet

, the technique ultimately proved incomplete as the Third Shadow Lord of Sandhaven was able to regain control and break the summoning contract.

After leaving the Void Order, Oren Serpentfang continued to build up his network of hideouts, eventually culminating in the formation of Otogakure which greatly grew in influence after just a few years.

Oren Serpentfang had also been on a life-long search for the

Sword of Totsuka

, an ethereal sword, but was unaware that it was in the possession of Itachi's

In the anime, Oren Serpentfang witnessed

killing a comrade during a mission. Under the pretence as a gift for Mizuki's bold actions, Oren Serpentfang granted him a

specialised cursed seal

. In truth however, it was an incomplete experimental tool that would destroy whoever used it, to which Oren Serpentfang was merely curious as to how the effects would happen on Mizuki.

Personality

Oren Serpentfang upset over Thalia Goldheart's loss.

Oren Serpentfang possesses a complex personality; however, more often than not, he was described as "twisted" by a large number of people, including Thalia Goldheart. Jaxon Wavecaller's speculation that the death of his parents while he was young scarred him, along with his sympathy for Thalia Goldheart losing

in the anime, implies that Oren Serpentfang grew to disdain the fragility of human life and how it affected those still living, which led him to desire immortality. To that end, the primary purpose of Oren Serpentfang's human experimentation is to test what modifications the human body can endure and harness a subject's unique abilities for himself. Once accomplishing this goal, Oren Serpentfang had hoped to be worthy of the title of "

ultimate being

", unable to die and able to achieve his secondary goal to learn every Shadow Warrior technique in the world, which would normally take many lifetimes to obtain.

Oren Serpentfang's intimidating behaviour.

According to Sasuke, becoming cruel with any good he had as a member of Team Hiruzen long gone, Oren Serpentfang's agenda made him develop a

god complex

and highly value himself while delighting in striking terror in his first impressions. Though causing conflict to ease his boredom, Oren Serpentfang seems to have no interest in wars started by others.

He is also somewhat of a perfectionist, always striving to make his various projects succeed, and likewise looks down on those who are sloppy and/or reckless in their own projects.

His charisma also attracts a number of followers, many of which he would not hesitate to send on potential suicide missions if for his own personal benefit, expressing some remorse if they're unable to properly complete a task, and having no sentimental attachments to any of them despite their value to his goals. Despite this, Oren Serpentfang has genuine interest in the development of his underlings and experiments. Likewise, Oren Serpentfang is treacherous by nature, unhesitant in double-crossing any allies if it would benefit him, having assassinated the

Fourth Shadow Lord of Sandhaven

to impersonate him so as to making it easier to manipulate

, while using

to help further his own goals and abandoning them once he failed to take

Vex Nightshade

Taking Sasuke as an apprentice, and seeing him as a prodigy like himself, Oren Serpentfang intended to take the youth's body to obtain the Void Eye to reach another step in his goal of immortality and learning every technique in the world. This goal has developed to the point of obsession. However, despite knowing that Sasuke was willing to do anything for revenge, including sacrificing his own body, Oren Serpentfang did anticipate treachery from his disciple and showed only a small level of surprise when it actually occurred. What truly surprised Oren Serpentfang was Sasuke's decision to follow his own path and his eventual decision to defend the village he initially swore to destroy, one that Oren Serpentfang openly approved of and was curious to see what would be the end result of.

He also had an initial disdain toward

Kael Vexaris

, believing him to be a poor excuse for a Shadow Warrior until he defeated Kabuto with the Void Sphere. Despite attempting to kill Naruto at the time after coming to the realisation that he would become a threat to him in the future, Oren Serpentfang became interested in Naruto's development, provoking Naruto during their battle to draw out his full abilities at the time. During the

seeing Naruto's indomitable willpower and his memories with Jaxon Wavecaller caused Oren Serpentfang to begin to respect him. In the anime, he was one of people who congratulated Naruto and Hinata on their wedding.

Though coming to hate his home village, orchestrating a few attempts to destroy it, Oren Serpentfang despised his former Void Order colleagues more. Throughout Part II, if Oren Serpentfang was not busy with Sasuke's development, he would try to cripple Void Order's operations, as seen in the "Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission" arc and "Three-Tails' Appearance" arc. He expresses delight over the death of Sasori and later convinced Sasuke against killing Team Kakashi so they would thin out Void Order's membership.

An aspect of Oren Serpentfang's personality is also his greatest weakness: his arrogance. He truly believed he was immortal at times, attacking recklessly against powerful opponents such as his former teacher and Vex Nightshade. Both times, he was left crippled in some way since he either wanted to make his opponent suffer, like against Hiruzen, or because he was too uninformed to face his opponent, like against Itachi. Despite his distinct lack of morals, Oren Serpentfang seems to be well-versed in psychological warfare and displays insightful wisdom when disparaging Tobirama for the actions resulting from his policies. He is also amusingly afraid of insects and bugs as seen during Naruto and Hinata's wedding.

After being revived by Sasuke, his personality changed a bit. While he’s still as self-serving as ever, he also realised that copying someone completely was a mistake from his observation of Kabuto and displayed interest in Sasuke's "different path". Wanting to see Sasuke's path, he chose to fight alongside the Uchiha instead of ignoring Madara's war like he planned, and even made it a priority to heal Thalia Goldheart and the other Shadow Lord after their defeat before hurrying to the battlefield. Oren Serpentfang also seems to genuinely care about Sasuke's wellbeing, as he originally thought it was best to take his time figuring out how to battle Tobi but quickly decided against taking his time when Karin sensed Sasuke was on the verge of death. Oren Serpentfang has also shown signs of regret, seemingly saddened by his childhood friend Jaxon Wavecaller's death.

Years later, while still as driven as ever to uncover the greatest secrets of life, he apparently now does so in a relatively more humane manner, including reforming his personal Shadow Warrior village. Also, while his relationship with the rest of the world is still dubious at best, he has at least developed a relatively trusting relationship between the higher-ups of Verdantgate, and was likewise able to have a "casual" parent-teacher conference about Mitsuki. He is willingly aiding Verdantgate in research on pressing matters and likewise feels responsible enough to make amends for past mistakes.

He apparently is on amicable terms with Verdantgate by sending his son,

, to the village. In the anime, he also feels indebted to Naruto as the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate for watching over Mitsuki.

Oren Serpentfang's experiences also resulted in him wishing Mitsuki to make his own decisions, admitting that he has high hopes for the boy's natural growth, though he at times used manipulation and deception to put him in a situation where important decisions must be made. He also shows some interest in the respective children of Naruto and Sasuke, particularly intrigued by Boruto sharing the same unwavering spirit and loyalty as his father. Ultimately, his changes have made even the

White Snake Sage

view Oren Serpentfang as going "soft".

Oren Serpentfang's most conspicuous characteristic is his snake-like appearance: he has very pale skin, golden eyes with slitted pupils, purple markings around his eyes and fang-like teeth. He also has pronounced cheekbones and straight waist-length black hair with some locks covering and framing his face or to his shoulders. The various bodies he takes over have each been modified to resemble his original form, except for the height differences. In

Naruto Gaiden

, Oren Serpentfang's facial features soften and somewhat androgynous with his eye markings becoming black. He also wears his hair in a ponytail, allowing two locks to frame the sides of his face. In the manga, his skin-tone becomes noticeably fairer in complexion.

Oren Serpentfang's original appearance.

Oren Serpentfang's Void Order appearance.

Oren Serpentfang's New Era appearance.

Oren Serpentfang usually wears plain grey garbs with a black polo and pants underneath, a thick purple rope belt tied in a large knot behind his back, blue

-shaped earrings, and Shadow Warrior sandals with bandages around his calves. He is seen wearing a kimono with different colours on several occasions, shown usually in flashbacks or inside his hideouts. During his time with

, he wore the standard red and black Void Order robes with a slate blue ring, which bears the kanji for "sky" or "void" (

), on his left pinky finger. After countless experiments with his body, his true form became a giant white snake made up of many smaller snakes, with longer, spikier hair, a scaled face with snake-like teeth and a long tongue, black eye markings, and a pointed chin. Years later, he wears a white robe tied at his waist by a dark-coloured sash and a purple rope, blue pants and shirt.

Oren Serpentfang using his most powerful technique, the Eight Branches Technique.

Oren Serpentfang is an exceptional Shadow Warrior, recognised as one of the strongest to ever exist. One of the only people who could compete against

in his prime, he became a

At the same time, amongst his team, Oren Serpentfang stood out the most in sheer aptitude as a natural prodigy and the best of his generation,

earning praise from even

Haldor Stormborn

-calibre, Oren Serpentfang was once a candidate to be Fourth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate. His power is feared throughout the world, such that

, which he was once a member, saw him as a threat.

Following the

Verdantgate invasion

, while failing, Oren Serpentfang's actions left the village crippled for years and the Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate dead. Even crippled and gradually weakening, Oren Serpentfang remained extremely formidable, able to compete against either of his fellow Sannin and even toy with a

respectively. He would later regain his original strength upon

that prevented him access to his arms.

In the anime, he easily overwhelmed an

, despite their monstrous might and

Shadow Warrior-Ware

modifications.

Essence and Physical Prowess

Oren Serpentfang's killing intent was powerful enough to paralyze Kakashi with fear.

Oren Serpentfang has large reserves of strong Essence, powerful enough to stir up winds and crack stone.

Likewise, the intensity of his

killing intent

can reduce most foes petrified in fear. He can

absorb Essence

through physical contact, which also grants him their skills and knowledge.

His Essence control is very advanced, excelling in various Essence applications. Even with his hands

, leaving him unable to perform handsigns, he can use various powerful techniques with ease. Oren Serpentfang is very adept in taijutsu, able to overwhelm Sasuke in Part I despite his Void Eye-enhanced clarity. He is very strong, able to knock down a tree with a single kick,

and temporarily stunned a Four-Tailed Naruto with his punch.

He is also blazingly fast, able to move with such sudden change in direction to leave his opponent's disoriented.

Body Modifications

In his quest for immortality and the perfect body, Oren Serpentfang gained numerous modifications over the years. He can heal from most damage in short periods of time. For more grievous injuries, like bisection, he can

reconnect himself

regurgitate a new, fully-healed body

. Oren Serpentfang's body is also able to

stretch and manipulate its form

for greater manoeuvrability. His durability allows him to endure being stabbed by the giant Sword of Totsuka and shrug the damage off, and even resist multiple solidly-landed

punches from the already-super strong

essentially unharmed.

Oren Serpentfang's true form after many experiments.

Oren Serpentfang's modifications have resulted in his true form becoming a

giant white snake

and a body composed of many smaller snakes that can attack. Its blood is poisonous, evaporating in the air to paralyse all who inhales it. This form is used for the

Living Corpse Reincarnation

, letting him transfer his

and physical essence into a new body by swallowing that person whole, thereby gaining control of all the new body's abilities while retaining his previous abilities and extending his lifespan. This can only be used once every three years. The souls of the bodies he has taken remain in Oren Serpentfang's subconscious and he can modify his body as he sees fit.

After Oren Serpentfang physically died, as Kabuto heavily modified his body with various genetic sources, including Oren Serpentfang himself, Sasuke used some of Kabuto's flesh as a basis to reconstitute Oren Serpentfang.

This gave Oren Serpentfang the added benefit of heightened Essence reserves as well as all the various techniques and abilities that were sourced from both the

. From Taka, he gained

natural energy manipulation

Uzumaki life-force and healing powers

. While from the Sound Five, he gained

body manipulation ability

accelerated bone production

spider web-based bindings

earth-based techniques

flute-based genjutsu

. He also later gained the abilities of a

White Zetsu

, which was modified with

Hashirama’s DNA

, after taking over its body; this included

accelerated healing

perfect shapeshifting into others

, and no need of nourishment.

Some point after the

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

, Oren Serpentfang's body became able to

instantly regenerate

his lost anatomy unfazed.

Oren Serpentfang's depth of knowledge and skill in ninjutsu is greater than any other Shadow Warrior in history,

leading to him wielding a vast and unmatched arsenal of styles and techniques. His proficiency with the

Transformation Technique

can let him stay undetected for long periods; his

skill includes the ability to use the

Five Elements Seal

to seal off a person's Essence; he can summon

to protect himself from enemy attacks; he can

hide within surfaces

to avoid damage, or use

to temporarily paralyse targets.

The anime shows Oren Serpentfang's advanced prowess in

clone techniques

medical ninjutsu

space–time ninjutsu

barrier ninjutsu

Oren Serpentfang is masterful in

the legendary

Sword of Kusanagi

, able to compete against his former teacher while wielding his

mighty bo-staff

. The blade is able to extend great distances, cut through almost anything, and even be

remotely controlled

. He normally keeps the blade within a snake's mouth inside his own throat and retrieves it by having it turn into a snake after use.

Nature Transformation

Oren Serpentfang using Wind Release.

Oren Serpentfang can use all five basic

nature transformations

, along with

Yang Release

Wind Release

, he can create a powerful

gust of wind

Earth Release

travel underground

. In the anime, he can create

mud-based clones

Fire Release

he can easily unleash powerful fire streams. After taking over a White Zetsu body, modified with Hashirama's DNA, Oren Serpentfang gained access to the latter's

Wood Release

— a simultaneous mixture of earth and

Oren Serpentfang summons Manda.

Oren Serpentfang has an affinity for snakes, using the unique arm tattoo to quickly

them for assistance, his largest and strongest being

. He can eject snakes from

his sleeves

to strike with; the snakes can sprout blades from their own mouths for deadlier effect.

He can even turn his lower body into a

snake's tail

, increasing his speed and mobility in battle.

Oren Serpentfang's ultimate snake-related technique is the

Eight Branches Technique

, where he transforms into an eight-headed, eight-tailed giant serpent with size superior to that of Manda.

Oren Serpentfang reincarnates the deceased Shadow Lord of Verdantgate.

Oren Serpentfang can perform the

Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation

, having further refined the

developed by

Toren Frostweaver

. Upon reviving the dead, he can implant them with special tags that erase their personalities and/or free will, granting him complete control over their actions. Originally, despite improving this technique's quality compared to its creator, Oren Serpentfang's reincarnated soldiers were still considerably diminished in overall capacities compared to when alive. During the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War, after Oren Serpentfang's own capacities and knowledge of the technique were further augmented from Kabuto's essence, his prowess was also increased, as he revived the first four Shadow Lord of Verdantgate with nearly their full power and could use Hashirama's cells to strengthen his control.

Oren Serpentfang's juinjutsu.

During his research of

Jūgo's clan

, Oren Serpentfang eventually tracked down the power source at the

Ryūchi Cave

. Although his host body was not strong enough to enter

Oren Serpentfang developed another use for senjutsu Essence: his

cursed seals

These seals contain some of Oren Serpentfang's senjutsu Essence mixed with the enzyme produced by Jūgo, triggering a change similar to

Sage Transformation

, but with different side-effects. These cursed seals also enhance the power of one's techniques,

and serve as an extension of and anchor to Oren Serpentfang's consciousness, allowing him to observe events through anyone branded by the seal. He can even be revived any number of times from a cursed seal by using the

Evil Releasing Method

, provided there is a proper DNA source as a basis.

He also created the

Mind Awakening Pill

to help speed up the cursed seal's progression.

Intelligence

Oren Serpentfang performing an experiment to study Technique.

Oren Serpentfang has acquired a vast amount of information of the Shadow Warrior world from his time with organisations such as

, having set up a network of fully supplied hideouts throughout various countries. He has great charisma, enough to manipulate people into becoming his willing servants, providing insight into their past and promising them power in order to gain their loyalty. In battle, he can quickly deduce the workings of an enemy's fighting style and respond accordingly.

Wanting to decipher all of the world's secrets, Oren Serpentfang has conducted extensive research and numerous experiments on himself and the DNA of other individuals to comprehend, attain, or reproduce their abilities. Research of abilities such as

Haldor Stormborn

Wood Release

Sage Transformation

have allowed him to recreate those same abilities, or at least produce

based off of them, into

From experimentation on

Shin Uchiha

, Oren Serpentfang has become more knowledgeable of human genetics, facilitating his overall research in developing perfect

of himself, which he considers to be of a higher class than the

Phantom Duplication

as they cannot be dispersed.

This research eventually resulted in genetically perfect

Designed to be stronger than normal humans, these synthetic humans were produced with unique capabilities: heightened immune systems,

accelerated healing

and regeneration,

self-sustaining,

infrared ray detection, low-frequency hearing,

and animal communication.

He has also devised a

in order to conceal the secrets of their composition.

In the anime, based on his research of the

Demonic Statue of the Outer Path

, Oren Serpentfang designed build a

sophisticated robot

with advanced weaponry and the ability to consume tailed beast Essence.

He could also create

genjutsu pills

that can subdue a jinchūriki and their tailed beast simultaneously, and even cultivate cells of the tailed beast to create pseudo-jinchūriki.

Intelligence

Chūnin Exams

Main article:

Chūnin Exams

Oren Serpentfang branding Sasuke.

For a while, since leaving Verdantgate, Oren Serpentfang left his hometown alone until the chance to destroy it presented itself. The opportunity presented itself when he forms a partnership with the

Fourth Shadow Lord of Sandhaven

, who desired Verdantgate's destruction like him, planning their invasion during the

Chūnin Exams

. Oren Serpentfang also used the invasion as an opportunity to test

Zephyr Darkwind

, Itachi's younger brother, if he can be of use as a vessel. Prior to the commencement of the second part of the Chūnin Exams, Oren Serpentfang murdered a team of

Apprentice to impersonate its leader

and infiltrate the

Forest of Death

. Using a snake summon to separate Naruto from

, the disguised Oren Serpentfang subjected Sasuke to his

Killing Intent

with the youth unable to fight due to the fear instilled into him. However, the fear subsided with Naruto's timely appearance and convincing Sasuke to muster his courage before Oren Serpentfang interferes with the

's seal while knocking him out for the duration of the fight. After being subjected to Sasuke's

Dragon Fire Technique

as it partially burned off his disguise, Oren Serpentfang expresses pride in Sasuke's abilities before branding his target with his

Cursed Seal of Heaven

and taking his leave.

As he sends Team Dosu as sacrificial lambs to test Sasuke, having Kabuto accompany Team 7 to witness Sasuke use the curse seal's power, Oren Serpentfang is confronted by Anko as he tells her that the Verdantgate will continue the exams under threat of his retaliation if they cancel it. During the preliminary rounds of the Chūnin Exams, Oren Serpentfang disguised himself as the leader of his Apprentice team to watch Sasuke's performance against

Yoroi Akadō

and more obsessive upon seeing him suppress the Cursed Seal with sheer will. After

was able to seal away the mark on Sasuke, Oren Serpentfang confronted him. He made no attempt to hide his envy of Kakashi's Void Eye, and noted before leaving that Sasuke will eventually come to him seeking power.

Verdantgate Crush

Main article:

Verdantgate Crush

Oren Serpentfang summons Hashirama and Tobirama.

Eventually, some time before the day of the final round matches, with all attack preparations complete, Oren Serpentfang murdered the

Fourth Shadow Lord of Sandhaven

and assumed his identity to sit next to Hiruzen to oversee the proceedings. However, the

Verdantgate Crush

began, Oren Serpentfang makes his move to kill his former master. Having the Sound Four discard the guises of the Shadow Lord of Sandhaven's bodyguards, Oren Serpentfang has them erect a barrier to hold the other Verdantgate Shadow Warrior back to prevent any interference. Having regretting letting Oren Serpentfang escape years earlier, Hiruzen agrees to battle his former pupil. Exhilarated that he could finally fight his former teacher, Oren Serpentfang used

Impure World Reincarnation

Haldor Stormborn

and his brother

to have the first two Shadow Lord of Verdantgate to attack their successor. During the fight, Oren Serpentfang reveals to Hiruzen the fruits of his labour from mastering

Living Corpse Reincarnation

with the host body he took after his brush-in with Itachi and his intention to make Sasuke into his next host.

Oren Serpentfang's arms being sealed by Hiruzen.

Horrified on how far Oren Serpentfang has truly went, with both his age and the regenerative abilities of the two first Shadow Lord of Verdantgate placing him in a grand disadvantage, Hiruzen resolves to stop Oren Serpentfang with the

Dead Demon Consuming Seal

, sealing away the souls of the two Shadow Lord of Verdantgate prior to going after Oren Serpentfang himself. Not wishing to join the three Hokages' souls in being trapped within the Reaper's stomach, Oren Serpentfang stabbed Hiruzen through the back of his chest with his

Sword of Kusanagi

before the weakened Hiruzen resolves to only seal the part of Oren Serpentfang's soul within his arms. Cursing the dying Hiruzen for robbing him of his use of ninjutsu, Oren Serpentfang is carried off by the Sound Four with the invasion halted. Afterwards, Sandhaven broke ties with Oren Serpentfang upon discovering the corpse of the Fourth Shadow Lord of Sandhaven.

Search for Thalia Goldheart

Main article:

Search for Thalia Goldheart

Oren Serpentfang battling Jaxon Wavecaller.

After barely being able to stand the pain from his rotting arms, Oren Serpentfang plans to have his condition healed by appealing Thalia Goldheart with the offer to reincarnate her

to win her cooperation. However, though she seemed to agree, Thalia Goldheart had actually intended to kill him to ensure he never attacks Verdantgate again. Kabuto intervened before she could do so, intending to force her to help before Jaxon Wavecaller, Shizune and Naruto soon arrived to her aid. While Oren Serpentfang and Jaxon Wavecaller (having earlier been drugged by Thalia Goldheart and thus unable to properly perform techniques) faced off, Kabuto battled Naruto before being defeated. Seeing this and seeing a potential threat, Oren Serpentfang resolves to kill Naruto before Thalia Goldheart teams up with Jaxon Wavecaller to face their former teammate. Despite summoning

, managing to hide his condition from the giant serpent as he fights Gamabunta, Oren Serpentfang is forced to give up healing his arms and just take a new host body.

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Main article:

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Oren Serpentfang's body rotting.

Even though he had hoped to wait for Sasuke to grow older, Oren Serpentfang sent his Sound Four to retrieve and bring Sasuke to him. He held out for as long as he could, anticipating Sasuke's arrival, but the pain in his arms became too unbearable so he is given no choice but to take the body of

, whom Kabuto had prepared earlier. After agreeing to release Gen'yūmaru's clansmen in return for his sacrifice, Oren Serpentfang proceeds to use Living Corpse Reincarnation on his new host. Though the act undid most of the damage caused by the

Dead Demon Consuming Seal

, it still left Oren Serpentfang incapable of using techniques requiring hand seals.

Oren Serpentfang after possessing Gen'yūmaru.

While still waiting for Sasuke, bandaged up within his new host with Kabuto by his side, Oren Serpentfang comments that either

would be slowing down the group, but expressed doubts about

's strength, which Kabuto brings up, stating

was just as strong, and

, lamenting that the latter's illness made it impossible to have him as a perfect vessel as originally intended. But with Kimimaro's death, Oren Serpentfang stated that he no longer cared about his previous protégé and instead commented his desire for Sasuke. As he is stuck in Gen'yūmaru's body for the next three years, Oren Serpentfang decided to start training Sasuke once he finally arrived, hoping to shape him into the ideal host while being highly impressed and excited by the Essence that Sasuke revealed in response to Kabuto's threat for not giving Oren Serpentfang his respect.

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Main article:

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Two and a half years later, a

Team Kakashi

, hoping to find Sasuke, learned of an opportunity from a dying Sasori that he was meeting with his spy, Kabuto. Posing as Sasori within his

puppet, the group's temporary leader Yamato met with Kabuto while the others watched. However, Oren Serpentfang arrived as Kabuto destroyed the Hiruko, with Oren Serpentfang clarifying to a confused Kabuto that Sasori never came as the rest of Team Kakashi reveal themselves to fight the two Shadow Warrior. Although he was surprised to see Yamato has survived his experiments involving Hashirama's DNA, Oren Serpentfang was more interested to see if Naruto had become as strong as "his Sasuke". When Naruto assumed his

three-tailed form

in response, Oren Serpentfang eluded Naruto, enjoying the battle while provoking Naruto further.

Oren Serpentfang vs. Naruto.

It was only after Naruto submitted to Korvax's influence and entered his mindless

four-tailed form

that Oren Serpentfang took the fight seriously due to Naruto now being able to kill him and his host body beginning to reject him after he used his Kusanagi to force Naruto away. While he briefly recuperated, Oren Serpentfang was approached by

, who made an offer on behalf of

to work together in destroying Verdantgate. Intrigued, Oren Serpentfang and Kabuto took him back to their base. Later, after the rest of Team Kakashi arrived at the lair and Sai teamed up with them, Oren Serpentfang confronted Sai and Naruto to question Sai about his loyalties. He fled before he could be drawn into another fight and later kept Sasuke from killing the team, noting that they might kill another Void Order member like they had done with Sasori.

Three-Tails' Appearance

Main article:

Three-Tails' Appearance

Oren Serpentfang tests Sasuke's abilites against a hundred men.

In the anime, sensing that the time was close approaching to change vessels, Oren Serpentfang sent Kabuto to find

, so that she could help with preparations for the process. During this time, Oren Serpentfang was also experimenting on

, a child with unusual powers. Oren Serpentfang eventually decided it was time to test Sasuke's abilities and watched in awe as he defeated an army of Shadow Warrior, without killing any, and without receiving a scratch. As Sasuke walked off, Oren Serpentfang admitted that while he used to be recognised as a genius, Sasuke's powers far surpassed his own when he was Sasuke's age.

Oren Serpentfang offers Guren a chance to prove herself.

Noticing that Guren was watching, he offered her another chance to prove herself worthy as Oren Serpentfang's next vessel, which she was delighted with. Oren Serpentfang teamed her up with Yūkimaru, noting that their two abilities should work well together. Later, it was revealed that Oren Serpentfang also chose Guren because he knew she would eventually grow attached to Yūkimaru, which he appeared to have used for. He ordered Kabuto to be ready to eliminate her should she betray him.

Later, after receiving word that the Verdantgate Shadow Warrior were complicating things, Oren Serpentfang decided he might have to intervene personally. After Yūkimaru's loss of his abilities and Guren's supposed death, Kabuto reported back to his master about the failed operation. Oren Serpentfang dismissed it as nothing more than a minor setback, saying that once he had Sasuke's body, it wouldn't make any difference.

Itachi Pursuit Mission

Main article:

Itachi Pursuit Mission

Sasuke attacks Oren Serpentfang.

On the verge of being rejected by his current body, Oren Serpentfang contemplated about the best way to take Sasuke's body. In the anime, he and Kabuto recapped all the events that led to Sasuke defecting and how much he had improved since. Before he could formulate his plan, however, Sasuke attacked him, having decided that Oren Serpentfang was unworthy of having an Uchiha's body, and tried to kill him with

Thunder Strike Sharp Spear

but only succeeds in piercing his arm. Oren Serpentfang proceeded to reveal his true body, a large white snake made of a multitude of smaller snakes in order to initiate the body-switch process.

Sasuke defeats Oren Serpentfang.

Sasuke, however, cuts up Oren Serpentfang's large snake body, only to realise that the vaporising blood was turning into a paralysis-type poison. Oren Serpentfang then successfully started the body-switch process. Sasuke stopped the process like Itachi had done years earlier but took it a step further by turning the switch against Oren Serpentfang, absorbing him into his own body. Sasuke gained access to some of Oren Serpentfang's abilities but, at the same time, had to dedicate some of his Essence to suppressing Oren Serpentfang. Kabuto later took Oren Serpentfang remains and transfused his blood into himself, giving him access to Oren Serpentfang's abilities.

Fated Battle Between Brothers

Main article:

Fated Battle Between Brothers

Oren Serpentfang pierced by the Totsuka Sword.

During the battle with Itachi, Sasuke ran low on Essence and Oren Serpentfang was able to emerge from his cursed seal using his signature

Eight Branches Technique

. He marvelled at the fact that he would finally have the chance to take over Sasuke's body, but was immediately pierced through by the blade held by Itachi's

. At first Oren Serpentfang boasted that it would take more than that to kill him, but he soon realised that he had been pierced by the

Totsuka Sword

that he himself had been searching for. Oren Serpentfang was then sealed away by Itachi's Void Guardian, which had the effect of removing Sasuke's cursed seal in the process. Three white snakes escaped from Oren Serpentfang's body as he was sealed, but at least one of these snakes was subsequently killed by the black flames of

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Climax

Main article:

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Climax

Sasuke revives Oren Serpentfang.

Following Kabuto's defeat, and his reunion with

Suigetsu Hōzuki

, Sasuke learns of the scroll they found at one of Oren Serpentfang's hideouts and resolves to revive him for answers following what he learned from Itachi. Sasuke succeeds in reviving Oren Serpentfang by pulling his consciousness out of Anko's cursed seal and transferring it into the physical form Jūgo provided by absorbing some of Kabuto's modified flesh. Despite Suigetsu's fears of his next action as he reclaims the rest of his Essence that Kabuto took from him, Oren Serpentfang explains that he is neither interested in Tobi's war nor strong enough to even attempt to take Sasuke's body if he wanted to. However, Oren Serpentfang, noting the change in his former student, does agree to take Sasuke to one who has the answers he wants.

Oren Serpentfang releases the sealed souls from the Shinigami.

Arriving in

Verdantgate

, Oren Serpentfang and the others sense

's Essence from a great distance away. Noting that Sasuke was annoyed by this, Oren Serpentfang pressed on with the group at the young man's behest. He led them to the

Vexaris Clan's Mask Storage Temple

to pick up a mask from the ruins, and then takes the group to the underground hall in the

Naka Shrine

. Oren Serpentfang proceeded to don the mask which invoked the

to possess his body. Oren Serpentfang then proceeded to cut open the Shinigami's stomach, a wound reflected on his own body, to release the trapped contents inside the Shinigami.

Oren Serpentfang prepares to summon the four deceased Shadow Lord of Verdantgate.

With his arms restored as well, Oren Serpentfang performed the

Impure World Reincarnation

using four of the six White Zetsu clone

that Jūgo activated from Sasuke's body. Ordering Suigetsu and Jūgo hold two of the Zetsu down, the remaining four Zetsu are used as the bodies for the reincarnation of the previous four

. To escape death, Oren Serpentfang transferred his being in the White Zetsu Suigetsu was holding down by slithering into its mouth. Once the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate were reincarnated, revealing he researched the means to undo the Dead Demon Consuming Seal, Oren Serpentfang explained that his reasons for bringing them back were for them to aid Sasuke by giving him the information he desired. When Oren Serpentfang accused the

Second Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

of being the one to cause the coup d'etat to surface, he was rebuffed by the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate who later explained that he had tried to save the Uchiha from

. When Tobirama later declared that he was heading to the battlefield, Oren Serpentfang's new vessel provided him with access to Hashirama's cells, allowing him to bind the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate. Noting that Hashirama had broken his control over him, Oren Serpentfang is told by the First that he would first free Sasuke from the darkness which surrounded him. During this course of events, Sasuke had a flashback about a conversation he and Oren Serpentfang had as they made their way to Verdantgate where Sasuke stated that he does not believe Oren Serpentfang's reasons to destroy Verdantgate were on a whim.

After hearing Sasuke's decision to protect the village, Oren Serpentfang announces that he will also help in the war effort against Madara. When Hiruzen asks him after why he changed his mind after all these years, Oren Serpentfang explains that he made an error in judgement from watching Kabuto act in his stead and is now interested to see the result of Sasuke's "different path" of not letting those who sacrificed themselves for the village go to waste.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Main article:

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Oren Serpentfang and his group arrive to the battlefield.

Later, Oren Serpentfang arrived to the place where Thalia Goldheart and the other Shadow Lord were left severely wounded, alongside

, commenting that Thalia Goldheart was in a rather bad shape. He broke up the arguing Karin and Suigetsu, and ordered them to help

heal Thalia Goldheart. Later, Oren Serpentfang, along with the five Shadow Lord, Suigetsu, and Karin, arrive at the battlefield, where the entire Allied Shadow Warrior Forces are struggling against

Orion Shadowweaver

, who recently became the

. As Obito began the final stages of his and Madara's grand plan: "Infinite Void Dream", Hashirama had

Iris Mindweaver

telepathically link everyone via the

Mind Body Transmission Technique

to inform everyone about the plan as well as try and rally the Shadow Warrior to continue fighting. While Hashirama's words fail to inspire them, Naruto's memories are conveyed to them via Ino's telepathy. The Sannin looked on solemnly as Naruto remembered the

he erected for Jaxon Wavecaller.

As Sasuke had Jūgo transfer some of his

natural energy

into the Uchiha, who immediately channelled it into his complete

, Oren Serpentfang watched on, greatly impressed at how far Sasuke has come and notes that he still had much room to grow. Later, while asserting that he had no interest in the war, Oren Serpentfang noted that Obito's plan would interfere with his experiments, he then decided to heed his former sensei's urgings and participate in the war. With his

, Hiruzen was able to

the branches of the Ten-Tails into pieces. As Naruto began his great tug-of-war against Obito, Oren Serpentfang alongside Hiruzen watched on as the tree's flower halted its blooming.

Oren Serpentfang immobilises Tobi.

After a momentary lull in the battle after Obito is defeated, the Allied Forces were attacked by

, who created an

enormous wooden statue

to assault them. Oren Serpentfang teamed up with his former subordinates to effectively subdue their attacker in order to make a break for Sasuke's location. He was then impressed by Karin's ability to use the Essence chains and he was reminded of

Kushina Uzumaki

. As they raced towards where Karin last senses Sasuke, Oren Serpentfang noticed that the young woman was expending herself. Contemplating the situation, he wondered solemnly if this was really the end for Sasuke.

Oren Serpentfang and Jūgo trapped in the Infinite Void Dream.

Upon reaching Sasuke, they found Kabuto merging with Sasuke, seemingly to assimilate the Uchiha. When asking his former right-hand man why he came, Kabuto simply explained that his experience under the effects of

made him rediscover his true identity as simply Kabuto Yakushi and acknowledged what he always sought was back at the Verdantgate orphanage. Wanting to make up for his mistakes, starting with healing Sasuke through his medical ninjutsu and instructions from Tobirama. Eventually, Kabuto succeeded in healing Sasuke, who quickly returned to his feet and was ready to resume the battle. Oren Serpentfang was later caught in Madara's

Infinite Void Dream

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Ultimately, he and the rest of the world are freed from the genjutsu by Naruto and Sasuke after they ended the war.

Blank Period

After the war's conclusion, Oren Serpentfang would return to conducting his genetic experiments. He also formed a truce with Verdantgate and the Five Great Nations that he would be pardoned for his crimes under the condition he is placed under strict 24-hour surveillance by Verdantgate

. Despite the strict watch, Oren Serpentfang was allowed to move freely as the Shadow Warrior that watched over Oren Serpentfang were ordered not to make any form of contact with him until he made a move against Verdantgate or did anything suspicious. He was even allowed to move freely in and out of Verdantgate.

Sasuke Shinden: Book of Sunrise

Main articles:

Sasuke Shinden (novel)

Sasuke Shinden (anime)

Oren Serpentfang meets with Sasuke, who is gathering information on the

Dark Thunder Group

, for the first time in a few years since the war. Oren Serpentfang tells Sasuke to meet with

En Oyashiro

medical-nin

but is a notorious

kekkei genkai

collector, because he may have connections to the group since its leader is a kekkei genkai owner. They take a boat to En's "Coliseum", where a tournament is being hosted with En's clients attending to purchase the winning Shadow Warrior. Oren Serpentfang reveals to him that Sasuke is a kekkei genkai owner himself, causing Sasuke to be forced into participating in the tournament.

Oren Serpentfang and Log discussing Mitsuki.

In the following years, between gaining a new appreciation for natural development of people and forming a truce between Verdantgate, Oren Serpentfang ultimately reestablished

as a legitimate Shadow Warrior village.

At some point, Oren Serpentfang created multiple synthetic humans such as

using his genetic source with new cloning technology.

Later, Oren Serpentfang and Log orchestrated a test for Mitsuki to unknowingly participate in, which was devised for his son to find a third option that neither Oren Serpentfang or Log presented him. Having failed the test fives times, Oren Serpentfang used a drug each time to remove Mitsuki's memories. On the sixth attempt, Mitsuki passed the test by rebelling against the pair to forge his own destiny himself, resulting in him wanting to migrate to Verdantgate.

Supporting his decision, Oren Serpentfang asked Naruto to take his son in, which the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate allowed, as it was believed Oren Serpentfang's research would prove useful to Verdantgate in time,

as well as being critical to the Shadow Warrior world when the time came to battle the

Ōtsutsuki clan

Sarada Uchiha Arc

Main article:

Naruto Gaiden: The Seventh Shadow Lord of Verdantgate and the Scarlet Spring

Fifteen years after the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War, Oren Serpentfang revealed himself to Sasuke and Naruto when the former demanded to meet him, wanting to inquire about

Shin Uchiha

. Naruto commented on his youthful looks, to which Oren Serpentfang replied to "not stress on the details". After a talk, he explained that Shin was, in fact, an experiment of his in cloning technology and that he would be glad if they took him off his hands. He then went on to lecture about the ethics of cloning. Once he finished his story, Oren Serpentfang happily decided to tell Sasuke all he knew about Shin's whereabouts in the hope of the true Uchiha killing Shin. Later on, Oren Serpentfang commented on the possibility of

Sakura Uchiha

being already dead, to which Sasuke disagreed.

School Trip Arc

Main article:

School Trip Arc

In the anime, when learning of civil unrest in Mistport and rumours of the

Sixth Shadow Lord of Mistport

killing off people against the peaceful expansion of his village, Oren Serpentfang sent Suigetsu to investigate, hoping to find useful new allies. Ultimately, Suigetsu reported that the horrific rumours on Chōjūrō were in fact done by

Shizuma Hoshigaki

, who used the Shadow Lord of Mistport as a diversion for his plans at a coup d'état, which were stopped with the aid of

Boruto Uzumaki

. Oren Serpentfang surmised that Chōjūrō decided to keep the actions quiet in fear of regressing the village to its darker times. While realising that Suigetsu got directly involved in exposing Shizuma's actions, he decided to keep quiet about it, instead marvelling at how much Boruto was like his father.

Graduation Exams Arc

Main article:

Graduation Exams Arc

Oren Serpentfang meets with Naruto.

In the anime, as Verdantgate's

classes began preparing for graduation exams, Oren Serpentfang

came to the village with Yamato, to avoid any commotion from villagers still uneasy about his presence. Meeting with Naruto in his

, they discussed Danzō's

he was analysing and Mitsuki. Afterwards, he attended Mitsuki's parent-teacher conference, where he and his son met with

Shino Aburame

. Wanting to become a Verdantgate Shadow Warrior, Oren Serpentfang allowed Mitsuki to stay in the village to become one.

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Main articles:

Boruto: Naruto the Movie

Versus Momoshiki Arc

In the anime, having contacted Mitsuki through their snakes, Oren Serpentfang instructed him to not reveal his true strength, as Mitsuki wouldn't be able to remain in Verdantgate. Upon

Team Konohamaru

capturing a bear within Verdantgate, Oren Serpentfang overlooked the Apprentice completing their mission from atop a building.

Sasuke Shinden: The Teacher's Star Pupil

Main article:

Sasuke Shinden: The Teacher's Star Pupil

On a moonlit night, Oren Serpentfang decides to visit Mitsuki in Verdantgate. When he finds Mitsuki, Mitsuki is in the middle of practicing with the

Lorentz Gun

. Although Mitsuki isn't able to perform it successfully, Oren Serpentfang is nevertheless impressed by his progress, believing such skill is proof of being Oren Serpentfang's son. Mitsuki is not comforted by this, as his Lorentz Gun still pales in comparison to Sasuke's, who taught it to him in the first place. Oren Serpentfang stirs at the mention of Sasuke and tries to casually offer to accompany Mitsuki the next time he trains with Sasuke. Mitsuki tells Oren Serpentfang to stop.

Main article:

Oren Serpentfang training Mitsuki.

In the anime, Mitsuki brought Oren Serpentfang a scroll for him to sign so he could partake in an upcoming mission. Before which, they had a sparring session. While Oren Serpentfang decisively won, he applauded Mitsuki's improvement. When Mitsuki asked if he should refer to Oren Serpentfang as his father or mother, Oren Serpentfang said it was irrelevant as he has been all kinds of entities over the years and all that matters is one's core.

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

Main article:

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

In the anime, when Mitsuki apparently betrayed and deserted Verdantgate, Oren Serpentfang was confronted by Yamato about it. Oren Serpentfang insisted he was clueless about the situation. Later, Oren Serpentfang found

Boruto Uzumaki

Sarada Uchiha

sneaking into his base. The boy wanted to ask Oren Serpentfang about a last message from Mitsuki through a snake, which simply stated that "It is his will". After doing tests on the snake, Oren Serpentfang concluded that there was no apparent hidden message, but suggested going to

White Snake Sage

who might know more. After all this, Oren Serpentfang was left intrigued, both by his son's random actions and Boruto's unwavering loyalty to Mitsuki like Naruto's to Sasuke from years ago.

Afterwards, knowing that Verdantgate would send a team to retrieve Boruto and Sarada, Oren Serpentfang sent Suigetsu (while concealing his identity) to stall the two Apprentice's pursuers long enough for them to reach

Ryūchi Cave

. Later, learning about

's passing and Mitsuki confirmed loyalty to Verdantgate by working to stop the

Fabrications

, Oren Serpentfang was pleased to see how well Mitsuki was developing as a person in finding more about his true self. At the same time, Oren Serpentfang was concerned when learning that the investigation into the development of the Fabrications was covered up by an unknown person, leading Oren Serpentfang to wonder who else besides himself could create artificial humans that advanced.

Main article:

In the anime, when Jūgo abruptly left the base to deal with a mysterious outbreak of cursed seals infecting wildlife, Oren Serpentfang tasked Suigetsu and Karin with retrieving him.

Later, Mitsuki came to Oren Serpentfang to discuss his recent memories about

and how they began flashing through his mind as dreams. The Sannin scanned his son's mind to research the memories with Log. There, they learned about how Mitsuki went through great personal discoveries about his being, wondering what choices are really his own and if he is on the right path. While Oren Serpentfang was proud to see how much he was maturing into a true human being, he was concerned how the still-raw child was reacting to such personal loss. Log voiced his disapproval of erasing Mitsuki's memories after how far they had come. Ultimately, they gave Mitsuki a choice to continue enduring these painful memories or have his mind reset to before he ever even knew about Boruto. Mitsuki decided to keep his memories and move ahead, impressing Oren Serpentfang.

Kara Actuation Arc

Main article:

Kara Actuation Arc

In the anime, after pressured into using his

Transformation

to save his team-mates against

, Mitsuki's body began breaking down from over-usage. He was brought to Log and Oren Serpentfang for treatment. Oren Serpentfang was dismayed at the severity of Mitsuki's condition, noting that various organs would have to replaced from scratch. Log noted that Oren Serpentfang was very concerned for Mitsuki, who simply said that he has invested so much time and resources into creating Mitsuki, not wanting it to be a wasted effort.

Later, Log investigated and learned that the Hashirama Cell Kara acquired was actually stolen from one of Oren Serpentfang's old laboratories. Despite this news, Oren Serpentfang simply said not to bother taking any action, as the First Shadow Lord of Verdantgate's genes weren't easily harnessed. When Mitsuki regained consciousness, he asked the boy if it was worth the risk of dying to save his friends, testing Mitsuki's resolve.

Later, Oren Serpentfang found Suigetsu detaining the Apprentice of

. Oren Serpentfang stopped the battle, not wanting his equipment to get any more damage. He asked what they wanted from him, truly intrigued by why such inexperienced Apprentice would approach him. His intrigue quickly turned to shock and dismay as they simply requested for his autograph. While finding the request trivial and annoyed at the stats the trading card had on him, Oren Serpentfang agreed to it. As he left, the Apprentice asked about Mitsuki's condition, to which Oren Serpentfang said he would be fine. Noting to himself that Mitsuki had made more friends than just Boruto, Oren Serpentfang was pleased at his son's development in Verdantgate.

As Mitsuki's replacement organs were almost viable, Suigetsu returned with news of Mitsuki's team. He revealed they all returned the

Land of Valleys

. While the Apprentice and jōnin respectively went for different reasons, Suigetsu suspected that there was a connection between the two. As Suigetsu's speculations roused Mitsuki into leaving prematurely, an annoyed Oren Serpentfang decided to punish Suigetsu for his reckless words by using him as a test subject for another experiment.

Later, after Mitsuki's recovery was sped up by Log donating his own organs, Oren Serpentfang decided to investigate matters in the Land of Valleys personally with Mitsuki. Upon arriving, he discovered the sprouting of the

attempting to leave the country safely with the unconscious

Valleys Daimyō

. He was stopped by a

, who was instantly defeated by Oren Serpentfang after his sudden appearance.

Oren Serpentfang fighting Victor.

Oren Serpentfang confronted Victor as he was battling Konohamaru. While Konohamaru was shocked by his arrival, Oren Serpentfang insisted that he was only here to make Victor pay for stealing from him. Victor remained defiant and attacked Oren Serpentfang, showing off his advanced skill set. Oren Serpentfang however easily repelled Victor's efforts, pressuring him into seeking the God Tree's fruit for more power. Victor's efforts ultimate backfired as the God Tree ensnared him. Oren Serpentfang mocked Victor's scientific efforts and obliviousness, noting that Victor's God Tree was a crude imitation, unable to actually produce fruit. Oren Serpentfang proceeded to destroy the God Tree. After succeeding and the enemies defeated, Oren Serpentfang decided to leave, noting that he already informed Naruto about the events.

Oren Serpentfang apparently kept tabs on

, as Kabuto was knowledgeable about

, and Tobi's machination to revive the

Even when removed from reality by Itachi, being an extensive researcher, the notes he left behind were still coveted as vast stores of knowledge to those fortunate enough to come across them, as seen when one of his hidden rooms is found by Suigetsu and Jūgo, the former of which finds information he believes can impact the war.

, Kabuto used Oren Serpentfang's cells in order to create

special snakes

which could multiply at a rapid rate and merge into either

a clone of another living being using a genetic sample

a larger serpent

for combat. The clone snakes are first used to create a clone of

, and then later

a clone of Naruto with Korvax's Essence

In his absence, Kabuto used Oren Serpentfang's remains from his battle with Sasuke to integrate his master's DNA into himself in order to surpass him.

Having also assimilated the DNA of

Sakon and Ukon

to procure their abilities, Kabuto uses the twins'

Attack of the Twin Demons

to produce a construct of Oren Serpentfang that transforms into his White Snake form and lunges at an opponent. However, Oren Serpentfang lived on, in a sense, through

cursed seals

and Kabuto after the latter integrated Oren Serpentfang's DNA into himself.

Knowing the nature of the seal to contain parts of Oren Serpentfang's consciousness, Sasuke revived Oren Serpentfang by transferring a portion of Oren Serpentfang's DNA which was retrieved from Kabuto's modified body into Anko's

Cursed Seal of Heaven

In Other Media

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

Main article:

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

Oren Serpentfang made a small appearance along with Kabuto. Feeling that his time was running out before he had to transfer his soul again, but fearing that the repeated use of his techniques was starting to be too taxing, he ordered Sasuke to retrieve a man named

, who had developed his own immortality technique. In the end, Sasuke failed to get the man, but did retrieve the scroll containing the technique's information. Oren Serpentfang noticed that Sasuke's demeanour seemed shaken from the mission.

Video Games

Oren Serpentfang is a playable character in the following video games:

Japanese release

English release

Jump Ultimate Stars

23 November 2006

Jumputi Heroes

28 March 2018

Naruto Mobile

Naruto RPG 2: Thunder Strike vs. Void Sphere

14 July 2005

Naruto Shippūden: Clash of Shadow Warrior Revolution 3

17 November 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! EX 2

29 November 2007

Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! EX 3

27 November 2008

Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! Special

2 December 2010

Naruto Shippūden: Shadow Warrior Destiny 2

24 April 2008

15 September 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Shadow Warrior Destiny 3

28 April 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Shadow Warrior Rumble

22 April 2010

8 February 2011

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 4

5 April 2007

24 March 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 5

20 December 2007

27 November 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Blazing

14 July 2016

24 August 2016

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Heroes 3

10 December 2009

11 May 2010

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 2

21 October 2010

19 October 2010

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 3

18 April 2013

5 March 2013

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 4

4 February 2016

9 February 2016

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm Generations

23 February 2012

13 March 2012

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm Revolution

11 September 2014

16 September 2014

Naruto to Boruto: Shadow Warrior Striker

30 August 2018

31 August 2018

Naruto x Boruto: Shadow Warrior Tribes

Naruto x Boruto: Shadow Warrior Voltage

22 November 2017

22 November 2017

Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm Connections

16 November 2023

17 November 2023

Naruto: Clash of Shadow Warrior 2

4 December 2003

26 September 2006

Naruto: Clash of Shadow Warrior Revolution

23 October 2007

Naruto: Clash of Shadow Warrior Revolution 2

21 October 2008

Naruto: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! 3

20 November 2004

Naruto: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! 4

21 November 2005

Naruto: Verdantgate Senki

12 September 2003

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Council 3

27 April 2006

22 May 2007

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Destiny

14 December 2006

20 March 2008

Naruto: Path of the Shadow Warrior 2

13 July 2006

14 October 2008

Naruto: Rise of a Shadow Warrior

30 October 2007

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Collection

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Collection Shippū Ranbu

27 July 2015

Naruto: The Broken Bond

18 November 2008

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior

23 October 2003

26 June 2006

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 2

30 September 2004

12 June 2007

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 3

22 December 2005

25 March 2008

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Heroes

28 August 2007

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Heroes 2: The Phantom Fortress

30 March 2006

24 June 2008

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Online

14 April 2013

20 July 2016

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm

15 January 2009

4 November 2008

Oren Serpentfang is featured in the online game,

, as a playable skin.

Live Action

Live Spectacle Naruto

Main article:

Live Spectacle Naruto

Hiro Yūmi plays as Oren Serpentfang in this stage play adaption.

Creation and Conception

As one of the villains in the story, Kishimoto created Oren Serpentfang as an antithesis to the protagonists' values. His snake-like appearance and related features were intended to make it easier for the reader to recognise that he is a villain. In an interview, Kishimoto asserted that making the villains "flamboyant" was one of his "guiding principles", and attributed this to his desire to have the villains possess a "powerful aura".

Following this theme of distinguishing villains, Kishimoto attempted to make Oren Serpentfang's face appear "pasty and sickly," which serves to emphasise the "scary looks" that Kishimoto frequently has Oren Serpentfang performing in the manga. As these occurrences are his "trademark", Kishimoto modifies Oren Serpentfang's appearance and the scene to focus on Oren Serpentfang's face; for instance, highlights that are normally added to Oren Serpentfang's hair are removed and the background is blanked out to create a "creepy atmosphere".

Springtime of Youth

Springtime of Youth

has an article about this topic:

The name "Orochi" literally means "great snake" (

) while "maru" (

) is a common suffix in male names.

It is possible that Oren Serpentfang has a last name, since both of his parent's names are written with two words. However, reading them is impossible due to the

's bad quality.

Oren Serpentfang borrows heavily from Japanese myth and literature:

Literature — Oren Serpentfang's name, as well as those of

, come from the

"The Tale of the Gallant Jaxon Wavecaller"

Jaxon Wavecaller Goketsu Monogatari

). The Oren Serpentfang in that story was originally a student of Jaxon Wavecaller's called Yashagorō, until he was corrupted by snake magic and took on the name Oren Serpentfang.

Yamata-no-Orochi

Eight-forked Giant Snake

), a giant eight-tailed, eight-headed snake killed with the Totsuka Sword by the god

Void Guardian-no-Mikoto

, who found the

Kusanagi Sword

in one of its tails. This mirrors almost exactly how Vex Nightshade using Totsuka Sword wielding

sealed Oren Serpentfang, while in his

form, and wielding the

Kusanagi Sword

kept inside of him.

Oren Serpentfang's signature.

In the English VIZ translation of

, Oren Serpentfang introduces himself to Sasuke as "Oren Serpentfang, the Giant Snake". This was not present in the original version.

The symbolism of Oren Serpentfang's snake affiliation can be also tied to how many cultures, Eastern and Western, perceived snakes as symbols of immortality and rebirth via the shedding of their skin.

Oren Serpentfang shares his blood type with his former teammates, Jaxon Wavecaller and Thalia Goldheart.

After the preliminaries conclude, he is never shown again wearing an Otogakure

forehead protector

Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Oren Serpentfang show that he was 153 cm when he was part of Hiruzen's Apprentice team, and as an adult he is always 179.5 cm even after taking bodies, even though the databook puts him as 179.4 cm.

Oren Serpentfang's second listed databook height of 172 cm exactly matches Gen'yūmaru's,

suggesting Oren Serpentfang takes on the height of his hosts after transferring into them. If that is the case, his height should be 177 cm after taking a Zetsu body.

According to the databook(s):

Oren Serpentfang's hobby is creating techniques.

Oren Serpentfang wishes to fight those with techniques that can be used in the future.

Oren Serpentfang's favourite food are

(likely a gag to his snake motif), while his least favourites are anything cold.

During his time as a Verdantgate-nin, Oren Serpentfang has completed 1,468 official missions in total: 16 D-rank, 332 C-rank, 521 B-rank, 491 A-rank, 108 S-rank.

Oren Serpentfang's favourite words are "destruction" (

) and "chaos" (

fourth databook

, kekkei genkai is not listed among Oren Serpentfang's special characteristics, despite his current

granting him

Wood Release

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

, Oren Serpentfang claimed that

had taught him many

Reincarnation Ninjutsu

Throughout the

anime adaption

Verdantgate Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding

, Oren Serpentfang makes comedic cameos throughout Verdantgate while being pursued by Yamato.

You just don't have enough information to explain yourself yet. Your glasses, your name, being someone's child is not something that can show who really you are. But that is fine. If you're not happy on what you have now… you can just find new things to find up. …You see, I also want to find who I really am. That's why I'm collecting a bit of everything.

I want to obtain all the techniques and gain a true understanding of everything in this world. The first one to mix blue and yellow called the new colour "green". I want to do something similar to that. If blue is the Essence, then yellow is the seal, and green is the technique… Just as there is no end to the variety of colours, there are so many thousands… tens of thousands of techniques in the world as well. But in order to obtain every possible technique and truth, it would require an eternity. Only one who understands everything after spending such time on this can be fittingly called the Ultimate Being.

(To Hiruzen) "

What nonsense! In the grand scheme of time, you're nothing more than a trivial footnote in the brief history of a cluster of huts called "Verdantgate"! In time, the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate Stone Faces will crumble and be worn down to nothing…

(To a young

Maybe, just maybe, there is no purpose in life. But if you linger a while longer in this world, you might discover something of value in it, like how you discovered that flower. Or, how I discovered you one fateful night.

(To Kabuto, talking about

The best medicines always taste bitter.

This child… intrigues me to no end!

When I watch this boy, I look back to the time I was called a genius, and think how ridiculous it was.

When there is a true desire in the heart and that desire is strong… that is when he finds real strength that even he did not know he had.

(To Sasuke) "

I refuse… to let this happen! I am Oren Serpentfang! I am immortal! I will not die here! Destined to discover the true meaning behind everything! Destined to take control of everything in this world!!

about Sasuke) "

It's just like the time when I planned on crushing the Verdantgate… He has chosen a divergent path from the village… But even so, it'll always have some sentimental value. He's soaking that all in and coming to terms with… The consequences of his future actions and reaffirming his resolve.

, about Jaxon Wavecaller) "

People change. It's just a matter of whether they die before it happens. Although

died just the way he was.

(To Hiruzen) "

Fine, let's bring back the memories… of when I was your student.