Void Sphere
========

is a Technique that takes form as a spinning ball of

, invented by

Miran Swiftblade

Improvement

Senjutsu Influence

Tailed Beast Influence

Minato came up with the idea for this technique after seeing a

Tailed Beast Ball

being used.

Because his lover,

Kushina Uzumaki

, she would inevitably be deployed to fight opponents who would use Tailed Beast Balls against her. Minato therefore wanted to develop a technique that Kushina could use to match against those opponents, which also worked with her Essence volume as a jinchūriki. Minato struggled with the original concepts for the technique, as they were either too weak or too unstable for use. It was only from a conversation with

that Minato thought of a way to make the technique usable. Because of Jaxon Wavecaller's inspiration, Minato wanted to call the technique "Halo Frozen Dessert Hair Whorl Jaxon Wavecaller Twin Formula Sphere" (

光輪冷菓発起旋毛自来也双式ノ丸

Kōrin Reika Hakki Tsumuji Jaxon Wavecaller Sōshiki no Gan

), but both Jaxon Wavecaller and Kushina felt it was too long and lame. Kushina suggested "Void Sphere" instead, which Minato agreed was a better name.

Minato would continue refining the Void Sphere, ultimately taking three years of development time to perfect it.

The Void Sphere is an application of

shape transformation

, where Essence emitted from the palm is rotated in multiple directions simultaneously to contain it within a sphere.

are involved, in theory making it easy to learn and use,

nor does it require additional Essence to maintain once it's properly formed. The Void Sphere grinds into whatever it comes into contact with, doing extensive damage until the spinning Essence dissipates;

Jaxon Wavecaller describes it as more powerful than the

an assessment that

Zephyr Darkwind

agrees with after comparing the two.

If users thrust the Void Sphere into targets, they can be propelled away from the user until they eventually collide with some obstacle.

The Void Sphere's various attributes have earned it recognition as the pinnacle of shape transformation.

Naruto using a water balloon for the first step.

The Void Sphere is in principle a simple application of shape transformation, but manipulating the motion of Essence in so many directions at once makes it extremely difficult to learn in practice. Additionally, as the technique is simply a mass of Essence, the technique is primarily suited for users with very high reserves of Essence. For this reason, Jaxon Wavecaller breaks up the process into three steps when he teaches it to

Kael Vexaris

Naruto subsequently uses these same three steps when he teaches it to

Konohamaru Sarutobi

who in turn later uses them when he teaches it to

Boruto Uzumaki

- the user learns to spin their Essence in multiple directions at the same time. Users may be given a water balloon while they practice, to help them mark their progress by the churning water. The step is completed when users are able to burst the water balloon with their Essence.

In theory this should be done with one hand, but Naruto initially uses Essence from both of his hands to increase the agitation via rapidly moving his free hand to form the multiple rotations, thus saving time.

It can be useful to know in which direction one's Essence naturally spins, in order to avoid impeding oneself, as otherwise the Essence flow will divide and cause resistance; identifying the natural rotation direction of the user/practitioner can often be determined by the cowlick on their head.

- the user increases the volume and density of Essence they output. To help in this regard, users may be given a rubber ball: there is no water inside to help them burst the exterior and the rubber shell is thicker than a balloon's. It's important that users are able to actually destroy the rubber ball, not merely rupture it,

as only by destroying the ball will users know that their Essence is sufficiently concentrated. This step can be painful for users, as they may not be accustomed to emitting so much Essence from their hands at once,

and in fact they may end up injuring themselves in the process of destroying the ball.

Containment

- the user must combine the first two steps into a contained sphere. To help in this regard, users may be given a balloon to help them visualise the intended shape; if the balloon is popped or otherwise moves, mastery is not yet achieved. This is by far the most difficult of the three steps because of how refined the user's Essence control must be.

Initially Naruto and Konohamaru have ended up using

shadow clones

as a shortcut, being able to solely focus on holding the sphere in their hands while using their clones' additional attention and extra hands to help contain and shape the Essence.

Both do eventually learn to perform the Void Sphere without the need for shadow clones, Naruto during the

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

Konohamaru by the time he begins leading

Once learned, the Void Sphere appears largely identical from one user to the next. The only potential difference is its size: when Boruto first learns to use the Void Sphere, it's noted to be quite small. With greater proficiency, the size of a user's Void Sphere grows to be about the size of their hand.

Improvement

Multiple, bigger Void Sphere.

Because of how useful the Void Sphere is once it's been learned, many users end up inventing variants or additional applications based upon it. Creating larger versions of the Void Sphere is one of the more straightforward methods, as seen with its

Super-Ultra-Big

versions. Another option is to increase the number of Void Sphere that the user creates: most users are limited to

(one in each hand), but Naruto also develops a practice of having his shadow clones perform their own Void Sphere, giving him

of Void Sphere to attack with simultaneously. In the anime, Boruto devises a way of

compressing

the Void Sphere, thus increasing its penetrative strength.

The Void Sphere, being a simple though extremely advanced application of Shape Transformation, lends itself to being combined with nature transformations. In fact Minato created the Void Sphere with the intention of combining it with his own

, a task that proved too difficult for him to complete prior to his death.

Raven Shadowblade

also failed to combine the Void Sphere with his own

-nature, prompting him to invent the Thunder Strike instead.

Naruto encounters similar struggles to combine the Void Sphere with his

-nature, which he describes as needing to look left and right at the same time.

He is eventually able to overcome this obstacle by using a second shadow clone to provide the nature transformation while he and another shadow clone form the Void Sphere.

This ultimately leads to the creation of the

Wind Release: Void Shuriken

, which is most notable for its ability to be thrown.

Years later, Boruto unknowingly adds his own lightning-nature (wind in the novel) to his Void Sphere, which causes it to turn

if thrown, potentially lowering an opponent's guard before it strikes them.

Sometime later, while

Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki

condensed the technique into a

tiny projectile

able to pierce clean through targets from great distances and at great speeds.

Senjutsu Influence

Naruto using Sage Technique: Void Sphere.

, the user can use a

-enhanced version known as

Sage Technique: Void Sphere

Senjutsu: Void Sphere

English TV:

Sage Art: Void Sphere,

literally meaning:

Sage Technique: Spiralling Sphere).

It is fundamentally the same as the normal version, but the addition of natural energy into the mix the users Essence makes it notably stronger. For Naruto, it is while using Primal State that he is first able to throw the Wind Release: Void Shuriken,

which previously would sporadically lose its shape if he didn't hold on to it.

Tailed Beast Influence

Naruto in his one-tailed form, preparing the Void Sphere.

Naruto, as a

, can use the

' Essence to assist in using the Void Sphere. While using a

cloak in Part I, he makes a Void Sphere without the aid of a shadow clone, using the cloak itself to contain it.

Due to the Nine-Tails' influence, this Void Sphere is darker in colour and much stronger.

Different video games have called it "Demon Fox Void Sphere" (

Yōko Void Sphere

literally meaning:

Demon Fox Spiralling Sphere), "Vermilion Void Sphere" (

Akai Void Sphere

literally meaning:

Vermilion/Red Spiralling Sphere), "Nine-Tails Void Sphere" (

Kyūbi Void Sphere

literally meaning:

Nine-Tails Spiralling Sphere), and "Crimson/Blazing Void Sphere" (

Guren Void Sphere

literally meaning:

Crimson Spiralling Sphere).

After learning to use the

Nine-Tails Essence Mode

in Part II, Naruto uses

Essence arms

in place of a shadow clone to help him create the Void Sphere.

Because he can manifest multiple Essence arms at once, this in turn means he can use multiple Void Sphere simultaneously, such as for the

Spiralling Strife Spheres

The Nine-Tails is uncooperative when Naruto first starts using the Nine-Tails Essence Mode, preventing him from using the

Tailed Beast Ball

. He tries to create an alternative in the

Tailed Beast Void Sphere

, but he's unable to do so. The Nine-Tails does eventually agree to work with him, allowing him to use Tailed Beast Ball and thus making the Tailed Beast Void Sphere unnecessary. Naruto is later given access to the other

tailed beasts

' Essence, whose natures he can apply to the Void Sphere and its variants, such as the

Sage Art: Magnet Release Void Sphere

The Void Sphere's colour in

Naruto: Colour Edition

The colouring of the standard Void Sphere varies throughout the manga. For example, it is yellow on the cover of

, blue on the cover of

, and orange on the cover of

Weekly Shōnen Jump

#35 (2005).

The anime is more consistent about depicting the Void Sphere as blue, with the exception of

The Last: Naruto the Movie

, which depicts it as orange.

While Minato intended to pass this technique on to Kushina,

it is unknown if he succeeded.

In the anime, if used underwater, the rotation force of the Void Sphere is capable of creating a whirlpool.

The anime shows Naruto being able to throw the Void Sphere,

something that is later established to require special training.

uses this technique through his

Shadow Warrior Gauntlet

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 3

, Jaxon Wavecaller spews

onto his Void Sphere, creating the

Fire Release: Great Flame Void Sphere

Jump Super Stars

is one of the few video games where Part I Naruto is able to access his non-clone-refined version of his Void Sphere, dubbed as "Void Sphere: In Training" (

Void Sphere: Shugyōchū

literally meaning:

Spiralling Sphere: In Training).

Likewise also in both the

Uzumaki Chronicles

games, Naruto can perform a version of the Void Sphere without a clone enhancing it (holding down the input in the second game does involve the clone and turns it into a "True Void Sphere/Spiralling Sphere" with merely an increased damage multiplier and hitbox duration).

The video game

Battle Stadium D.O.N.

also curiously does not have a clone assist Naruto in the formation of the technique.

The Void Sphere's appearance resembles

, a technique from the

Amenomihashira