Eternal Gaze
========

literally meaning:

Saṃsāra Eye) is reputed as the most exalted eye amongst the "Three Great

the others being the

. It is said that in times of disorder, one who wields the Eternal Gaze is sent down from the heavens to become either a "God of Creation" who will calm the world or a "God of Destruction" who will reduce everything to nothingness. The Eternal Gaze is characterised by concentric circles covering the eyeball.

Acquisition

Acquisition

The first person on

to wield the Eternal Gaze was

Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki

possessed the

Rinne Void Eye

. In the anime, he obtained his Eternal Gaze at the same time as his

Mangekyō Void Eye

, which awakened as a result of mortally wounding his

Using the power of the Eternal Gaze, Hagoromo saved the world from the

and created

, the precursor to modern

. For his contributions to the world, Hagoromo became revered as the Sage of Six Paths, and both he and his eyes rose to mythological status following his death;

even when the Eternal Gaze was later proven to exist, some dismissed it as a random mutation.

It is possible for a

wielder to awaken a new Eternal Gaze by obtaining

Hagoromo's Essence

, either by combining the

of his sons,

, to recreate his own,

or by directly receiving it from Hagoromo himself.

Black Zetsu

spent centuries attempting to manipulate the

reincarnations

of Indra and Asura into awakening the Eternal Gaze, but it was not until the time of

Malakor Voidheart

— Indra's reincarnate — that this was successful.

Madara implanted the flesh of

Haldor Stormborn

— Asura's reincarnate — into his own body, causing a part of Asura's Essence to combine with Indra's.

However, Madara's eyes did not become Eternal Gaze until decades later, when his natural lifespan was nearing its end;

this also restored his right eye's vision, which had been lost from his earlier use of

Kabuto Yakushi

later hypothesised that the Void Eye can be evolved into the Eternal Gaze by combining

DNA. To that end, Kabuto successfully recreated the Eternal Gaze by infusing Hashirama's cells into Madara's

reincarnated

though these fake eyes did not have full access to the original's abilities.

Sasuke's purple tomoe Eternal Gaze.

After receiving half of Hagoromo's Essence from his spirit, Sasuke awakened a Eternal Gaze in his left eye, which contains three

on its two innermost circles for a total of six. In addition to the Eternal Gaze's power, this eye retains the abilities of Sasuke's left Mangekyō Void Eye, including the ability to cast

ocular genjutsu

If Sasuke overuses the power of his Eternal Gaze, his ocular power will temporarily diminish, causing the tomoe in his Eternal Gaze to vanish until his full power returns. During this time, he is also seemingly unable to activate his right eye's Mangekyō Void Eye or use

Momoshiki's red Eternal Gaze.

Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki

had a pair of Eternal Gaze embedded in the palms of his hands. They were initially red, but after he

his guardian,

, they became purple (in

Boruto: Naruto the Movie

) or golden yellow (in

Boruto: Naruto Next Generations

). This also granted him a third Eternal Gaze on his forehead, which matched the other two in colour.

In the anime, Momoshiki's yellow Eternal Gaze temporarily turned red when he used their

Claw Grimes

, at least one of them manifested a single Eternal Gaze. Upon its manifestation, the Fission being gave off the presence of levelling up, and was accompanied with an increase of strength.

Later, the same Ten-Tails completely separated into several sentient

, with each one possessing a pair of purple Eternal Gaze. If a God Tree had their body destroyed and transformed into a Thorn Soul Bulb, their Eternal Gaze are regenerated alongside their entire body using roots of a specific tree.

Urashiki's blue Eternal Gaze

In the anime,

Urashiki Ōtsutsuki

manifested his Eternal Gaze in the same pair of eyes as his Sky Vision, and could switch between the two dōjutsu at will. Urashiki's Eternal Gaze were able to take on several forms to access different abilities: at times, they were red and contained six tomoe,

while at other times, they were blue with a white ripple pattern while using certain techniques.

After consuming all of the Essence he had stolen from others, Urashiki removed and devoured both of his Eternal Gaze, causing him to undergo a transformation. In this form, his eyes were restored, an additional Eternal Gaze appeared on his forehead, and all of his dōjutsu turned yellow, much like Momoshiki before him.

As with any dōjutsu, the Eternal Gaze can be transplanted into others. Prior to his death, Madara implanted both of his eyes into the young

without the boy's knowledge, and he was able to make effective use of them throughout his life due to his

Senju lineage

After Nagato's death, the Eternal Gaze were taken by

Orion Shadowweaver

who implanted the left eye into himself and hid the other, knowing he could not handle the power of both eyes at once.

Madara later reclaimed both of his Eternal Gaze after he was

and they were last seen deactivated upon his death.

He was also able to revert his Eternal Gaze to his Eternal Mangekyō Void Eye, though only seen when

Sasuke has noted that his Eternal Gaze would remain active after his death, and that it could be transplanted into and be usable by

Raven Shadowblade

The Eternal Gaze contains extraordinarily powerful

and boasts enormous ocular power, such that an unworthy wielder risks "losing themselves" upon implanting one. Their full power can only be brought out by their original owner, particularly when wielding both eyes, but possession of even a single transplanted Eternal Gaze can still grant overwhelming power.

It is able to see Essence and its flow within the body,

as well as otherwise invisible

but cannot see through obstructions such as

smoke bombs

Possession of the Eternal Gaze allows one to easily master any

as well as all five basic

nature transformations

The Eternal Gaze is the only

able to fully decipher the Sage of Six Paths'

stone tablet

Nagato using the Six Paths Technique.

One who wields the Eternal Gaze can utilise six abilities collectively known as the

Six Paths Technique

: controlling

forces with the

; mechanically altering one's body with the

; extracting

through the

various creatures through the

Animal Path

absorbing Essence

through the

; and access to the

King of Hell

through the

Naraka Path

. A seventh ability, called the

, is said to allow the user to preside over life and death, granting them the ability to

revive the dead

The Outer Path also allows the user to transmit their Essence into

black receivers

Essence chains

to bind the

tailed beasts

and create the

Six Paths of Pain

: six bodies controlled through the use of black receivers, which can each utilise one aspect of the Six Paths Technique. The Eternal Gaze grants the user a shared field of vision with their Six Paths of Pain, the creatures summoned through the Animal Path, and the King of Hell, all of which possess copies of the Eternal Gaze in their own eyes.

The Demonic Statue summoned by the Eternal Gaze.

The Eternal Gaze is the only means of breaking the

placed on the

Demonic Statue of the Outer Path

though it cannot be summoned using a fake reincarnated Eternal Gaze.

The dōjutsu is also used to

the Ten-Tails inside one's body and become its

When one who wields the power of Rinne approaches the

, they can awaken the Rinne Void Eye and cast the

Infinite Void Dream

In turn, another Eternal Gaze wielder is able to repel the Infinite Void Dream's light, and this protection can be extended to others by using the Eternal Gaze in conjunction with Void Guardian.

In order to end the technique entirely, a Eternal Gaze wielder must form the rat

together with someone who possesses the Essence of all nine tailed beasts.

Certain Eternal Gaze abilities have only been demonstrated by single users:

Zephyr Darkwind

's Eternal Gaze allows him to use

Amenotejikara

to swap places with a person or object within a certain range of himself,

as well as create

to other dimensions. It also has several sciences to it, and one of them is pattern recognition. It helps him analyse patterns inside codes, and by comparing them to similar patterns, decipher what is written. When put into use, he can take large amounts of information from a small amount of text.

Malakor Voidheart

can create corporeal shadows in the world of

, which are invisible to the those lacking the Eternal Gaze.

These shadows can also be sensed with

Six Paths Senjutsu

and can only be physically interacted with by using

Six Paths Essence

Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki

is able to absorb any ninjutsu with his right Eternal Gaze and subsequently release it in an

amplified form

from his left Eternal Gaze, as well as

Essence and living individuals into edibles.

Urashiki Ōtsutsuki

has two different Eternal Gaze with their own special abilities. With his red tomoe Eternal Gaze, he could use

Yomotsu Hirasaka

to travel through dimensions. With his blue Eternal Gaze, he could use the

Origami Replacement Technique

to displace himself by disappearing and leaving behind multiple red Essence

, leaving his Essence signature untraceable. He could also transport himself into the past to

redo events

, as an incarnation of the

and a sentient

, can fire a

Tailed Beast Ball

from his Eternal Gaze.

The general appearance of the Eternal Gaze.

's Eternal Gaze.

's red Eternal Gaze.

Momoshiki and

(anime only)

yellow Eternal Gaze after transforming.

(anime only)

Kara's Ten-Tails

' red tomoe Eternal Gaze.

Urashiki's blue Eternal Gaze.

(anime only)

The anime's first rendition of the Eternal Gaze.

literally meaning:

Wheel Cycle) is the Japanese term for

, the cycle of reincarnation or rebirth in several Indian religions. This is reflected in the abilities of the Six Paths Technique, which share their names with the six Saṃsāric

realms of reincarnation

The kanji "Rin" (

literally meaning:

Wheel) is also used in Void Eye and Rinne Void Eye, potentially linking the three terms etymologically.

When it first appeared in the anime, the Eternal Gaze was depicted as multicoloured. Its appearance was corrected after the Eternal Gaze was shown in colour in the manga. However, whereas the Eternal Gaze in the manga is a uniform shade of purple,

the anime tends to make the centre-most ring a slightly darker shade of purple.

chapter 254

hideout, Pain was depicted with three tomoe in his Eternal Gaze in a single panel. This was

in the tankōbon release of

In the digital versions of chapters

colourised by Shueisha's production team, Sasuke's Eternal Gaze was coloured red, but later illustrations coloured by

Masashi Kishimoto

revealed it to be purple. The colour was corrected in subsequent digitally colourised chapters, as well as in

Naruto: Colour Edition

. Similarly, in

episode 203

sixteenth opening

Naruto: Shippūden

, Hagoromo's and Madara's Eternal Gaze are depicted as red.

Though usually depicted with six, Sasuke's Eternal Gaze has also been depicted with three

and nine tomoe.

Though usually depicted as red, Momoshiki's Eternal Gaze were shown with the standard purple colour in a

Boruto: Naruto the Movie

drawn by Masashi Kishimoto, as well as on the cover of

Boruto: Naruto Next Generations

; elsewhere in the manga, they are coloured red.

When the Infinite Void Dream is cast, reflections of the Eternal Gaze appear in the eyes of those caught in its light.

Upon first seeing the technique, Sasuke referred to the Infinite Void Dream as a

cast by the Eternal Gaze.

In the anime, Black Zetsu also connects the technique to the Eternal Gaze.

fourth databook

, Hagoromo is only classified as a

kekkei mōra

user, suggesting his Eternal Gaze may not be a

kekkei genkai

In the anime, within the

Jaxon Wavecaller Shadow Warrior Scrolls

novel, the Eternal Gaze has the ability to see through solid objects.

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 4

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Collection Shippū Ranbu

, Sasuke's Eternal Gaze is erroneously referred to as a Rinne Void Eye.