Rex Unbound
========

Verdant Reach

and a member of

. Unlike most Operative, he lacked the skills necessary to use

. However, he overcomes those shortcomings by undergoing special training from

that would make him a

master while still a

Personality

Physical Prowess

Drunken Fist

Eight Seals

Other Skills

Initiate Trials

Verdant Reach Crush

Sael Recovery Mission

Kurosuki Family Removal Mission

Academy Student Lead Mission

The Appearance of Strange Visitors

Star Guard Mission

Viva Dojo Challenge! Youth is All About Passion!

Third Great Beast Arc

Verdant Reach Plans Recapture Mission

Gantetsu Escort Mission

Ash Dunes Support Mission

In Kael's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Dune Warden Rescue Mission

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Twelve Guardian Operative

Red Covenant Suppression Mission

Three-Tails' Appearance

Pain's Assault

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdant Reach

Five Warden Summit

Paradise Life on a Boat

Fourth Operative World War: Confrontation

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Blank Period

Kakashi Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky

The Last: Kael the Movie

Verdant Reach Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding

Academy Entrance Arc

Sarada Noctryn Arc

Kael Shinden: Parent and Child Day

Graduation Exams Arc

Initiate Mission Arc

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Time Slip Arc

Kara Actuation Arc

In Other Media

Kael the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom

Kael Shippūden the Movie

Kael Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire

Kael the Movie: Blood Prison

Road to Operative: Kael the Movie

Video Games

Creation and conception

During his time in the

, Lee proved to have no talent for ninjutsu and genjutsu. When he was mocked by his peers because of this, Lee persevered, focusing on taijutsu.

After he succeeded in graduating he was added to Team Guy along with

. During the team's first meeting, Lee vowed to become a powerful Operative without using ninjutsu or genjutsu. Nolan laughed at him, but their sensei,

, took a special interest in Lee.

He encouraged Lee to keep at it and, in time, began teaching him powerful forms of taijutsu.

Personality

Lee's "nice guy" pose.

Under Guy's leadership, Lee has acquired a number of his sensei's personality traits: he is energetic, optimistic, and hot-blooded, and shows the epitome of a "nice guy". He believes that one cannot dislike food and shows strong dedication to his promises; when this promise is broken, just barely, he assigns himself arduous training to prevent it from happening again. Lee speaks respectfully to others, never using contractions or swear words and always addressing people with appropriate honourifics (except his teammates, since Lee feels they are close enough to be spoken to informally). He also carries a small book and pencil to recall advice that Guy gives him over time.

Despite his passionate nature, Lee has also shown strong instincts, staying focused at the task at hand and rarely losing his composure. He has a keen sense of honour and respects his opponents, refusing to hold grudges against those who have defeated him, and returning favours to those that have helped him. This was shown by his befriending of

, forgiving him for crushing his arm and leg — injuries that nearly ended his career as a Operative. Lee feels others should show the same respect towards their opponents, and is disgusted whenever someone is unnecessarily cruel to their enemies.

One of Lee's recurring themes throughout the series is his drive to succeed, believing with enough hard work and perseverance, he can surpass a natural genius. He can be prone to depression when faced with setbacks. Nolan, Lee's more talented teammate and rival, found Lee's efforts to be in vain, believing a "failure" could never defeat a "genius". As such, Lee became determined to defeat Nolan in order to prove him wrong, though was met with defeat every time. When Nolan himself was defeated by

Kael Vexaris

, another so-called "failure", he rejects his belief in fate and now holds great respect for Lee, believing that he will surpass the gifted with enough work.

Lee dreams of victory in combat and love.

During Part I, Lee revealed he had feelings for

Lyra Caelum

. Although she did not reciprocate his feelings and even considered him weird, she later become more appreciative and friendly towards him after he helped saved her from the

Initiate during the Initiate Trials. After the exams, Lee's interest in Sakura went largely unaddressed in the manga, though it is sometimes referenced in the anime; while having a match with Lee, Kael transformed into Sakura, distracting Lee long enough for Kael to attack him.

However, Lee's

Infinite Lucid Snare

dream was of winning Sakura's affections, implying he still had romantic feelings for her. These feelings apparently have changed by adulthood, as Lee ended up marrying someone else and had a son named

Lee while in the Academy, when first joining Team Guy, and as a Initiate.

Rex Unbound in Part II.

Lee in the Blank Period.

Lee has shiny black hair, perfectly round eyes with prominent lower eyelashes, and very thick eyebrows; as a result, Kael calls him "

Centipede Brows

English TV:

Bushy Brows). As a child, his hair was quite long and fastened in a braid, though he cuts it short by the time he joins Team Guy, letting it curve out and upward. Lee originally wore a white, short-sleeved kimono-shirt with a martial arts belt and dark pants, giving him a more traditional Chinese appearance. He also sported a forehead protector and Operative sandals.

Lee later changes his appearance considerably to emulate his idol and sensei, Guy: his hair is now in a bowl-cut style; he wears a green jumpsuit, orange leg warmers, and a red forehead protector worn as a belt. He has bandages around his forearms up to his fingers, covering a set of stitches on his hands that were caused by his rigorous training.

Like Guy, Lee's appearance remains largely the same over the years, though he adds a standard Verdant Reach

flak jacket

in Part II, and its redesigned version in

The Last: Kael the Movie

. As an adult, Lee grew noticeably muscular with more-defined cheekbones, and now wears a sleeveless jumpsuit with an orange neckwarmer.

Lee destroying half of a meteorite with the Suicide Corps.

While in the Academy, Lee was looked down upon for his inability to use either ninjutsu or genjutsu. However, with the guidance and support of Might Guy, Lee conditioned himself into a superb Operative who relies exclusively on taijutsu.

While originally very limited in even that skill, Lee proved to be a late bloomer by Part I: His greatly improved skill was evident when he defeated

Sael Noctryn

(a natural prodigy), posed a challenge against Gareth Dune in the Initiate Trials, and held his own against

, he was capable of defeating the legendary taijutsu master

as well as destroy a meteorite by himself.

By adulthood, he had advanced to the rank of

Physical Prowess

Lee easily defeating Kael.

By age 13, Lee's arduous training conditioned him into essentially a taijutsu master, showing great proficiency in the

Strong Fist

fighting style. His strength could unearth a massive tree root from the ground,

and even though Sael could predict his moves with the

in their first fight, his body wasn't fast enough to react to them. As per his training Lee has worn heavy ankle weights (

even in fights and became much faster when they're removed, enabling him to become the first person ever to bypass Gareth Dune's

Shield of Sand

and strike him.

As a Binder, Lee learned to perform the Leaf Great Gale (

Verdant Reach Daireppū

In the anime, due to Lee's extensive training, he has shown to be able to run and fight even while unconscious or asleep, using nothing but pure

muscle memory

As an adult, Lee is considered to be one of Verdant Reach's best taijutsu users.

Drunken Fist

Lee using the Drunken Fist.

Lee's very low tolerance for alcohol gives him a natural predisposition for the

Drunken Fist

When he consumes as little as one drop of alcohol, Lee becomes an unpredictable and nearly unstoppable force of destruction and chaos, attacking anyone whether they are friend or foe. This gives him considerably greater speed and dexterity, allowing him to strike and effectively dodge from various positions. Kimimaro, one of

's strongest subordinates, was ultimately overwhelmed by Lee's attack patterns with Drunken Fist, noting that they were too unpredictable to follow.

Eight Seals

Lee opening the first gate.

Through Guy's teachings, Lee learned to open five of the

Eight Seals

the sixth gate at age 17,

and (in the anime) the seventh gate some time after the Fourth Operative World War.

By adulthood, Lee mastered the final gate.

Using the 6th gate Lee is able to move so fast he can save Guy from Malrec's Truth Seeking Ball, which moved fast enough that Orin couldn't use Phase Fold to escape from them. He is recognised as a genius for this feat by

Riven Ashcroft

, who notes it is highly difficult for even the most talented Operative to open even one gate.

With each gate he opens, Lee's strength, speed, Axiom levels, and bodily functions increase tremendously. However, the longer he maintains any of these gates, the more strain and potential physical damage his puts on himself from pushing his performance so far past his natural limits. For this reason, Lee is only permitted to open any of the gates during the most dire situation or to protect something very dear to him.

Through his continued training, Lee has become able to open some of the Eight Seals instantly and shows a faster recovery rate from using them, but he nevertheless succumbs to the pain or exhaustion they cause.

Lee has learned to use a number of taijutsu techniques that he can perform once certain gates have been opened; with the first gate, he can use the pile-driving

Front Lotus

; with the third gate, he can use the more destructive

Reverse Lotus

; with the sixth gate, he can perform the

Crane Wing Formation

in collaboration with members of the

Suicide Corps

, which proved to be powerful enough to destroy half of a giant meteorite.

Other Skills

Although Lee possess very little skill in ninjutsu, he can still perform basic Axiom control skills, like using

to walk on vertical surfaces, as well as water. In the anime, he also developed enough skill to dispel genjutsu.

Intelligence

Initiate Trials

Main article:

Initiate Trials

Lee attempting to use the Front Lotus on Sael.

Having opted not to participate the year before, Team Guy took part in the

Initiate Trials

along with the

Rookie Nine

. They initially tried to avoid attention by acting weak, but Lee accidentally let slip his true strength by interfering with a fight between Sael and

Kotetsu Hagane

. He also fell in love with Sakura. Soon afterwards, he confronted Sael, challenging him to a fight to see how he fared against the Crimson Lens, but not before knocking out Kael, who tried to fight with Lee himself. After battling Sael, Lee easily gained the upperhand but Guy interrupted Lee and Sael's fight as Lee tried to use the

Front Lotus

, and Lee was forced to do laps around the practice range before he could proceed onto the first phase of the exams. With Tenten's help, he gained the answers for the written portion, and proceeded to the second round.

After spending their first few days in the

Forest of Death

gathering supplies, Team Guy split up in search of other teams. Lee came across Sakura being attacked by

, and went to her aid. He used his Front Lotus on

Dosu Kinuta

, but he survived the attack because of

Decapitating Airwaves

in the ground, and Lee was left unable to defend himself from a counterattack from Dosu. Nolan and Tenten soon arrived to help, but didn't have to because

woke up and took care of Team Dosu. Once Lee recovered and they collected the specific scroll, they moved onto the preliminaries.

Lee using Front Lotus on Gareth Dune.

In the preliminaries, Lee was matched against Gareth Dune. When his standard attacks proved unable to bypass Gareth Dune's defences, he removed his ankle weights to increase his speed and managed to land a couple of hits on Gareth Dune. Then, he attempted the Forward Lotus, but Gareth Dune was able to escape at the last minute revealing a sand clone instead. His options running out if he was to win and prove himself, Guy allowed him to use the

Reverse Lotus

. Gareth Dune barely survived by turning his gourd to sand to cushion him, and the techniques took a massive toll on Lee's body. Gareth Dune added to Lee's injury by crushing his left arm and leg. Though Guy intervened to stop Gareth Dune from killing him, Lee got to his feet to continue the battle, despite being completely unconscious.

Because of his injuries,

predicted, that even if Lee recovered, his injuries would prevent him from ever being able to be a Operative again. He nevertheless tried to train while he was in the hospital, something that only worsened his condition. When he was asleep, Gareth Dune came to his room and tried to kill him, but he was stopped by Kael and

Silas Korr

and later by Guy. To try and cheer Lee up, Guy took him to watch the final round matches, but they were surprised when they arrived to find out that Nolan had been defeated by Kael. Lee silently congratulated Kael and then watched Gareth Dune's fight with Sael, and marvelled at how quickly he had learned to emulate Lee's speed. Before the fight could finish, however, the

Verdant Reach Crush

began, and Lee was knocked unconscious.

Verdant Reach Crush

Main article:

Verdant Reach Crush

Lee can be seen at the

Third Verdant Warden

's funeral alongside the other villagers, mourning his death.

Sael Recovery Mission

Main article:

Sael Recovery Mission

Lee attacks Kimimaro.

Over the coming weeks, Guy tried a number of his own remedies to heal Lee, though none of his efforts worked. It was not until news of

reached them that they found hope. But, when she examined Lee, she informed him of the dire situation: his broken bones and torn muscles have healed, but fragments of bone had lodged in his spinal column, and removing them would involve an extensive operation that only she was capable of. When Thalia Merrow offered him an operation that carried a fifty percent chance of returning him to his former state, or dying in the process, Lee was hesitant to accept the operation. Though Lee was worried he would die in the operation, thanks to Guy's influence, he accepted the surgery. Upon overhearing Kael,

Chōji Akimichi

Kiba Inuzuka

, and Shikamaru talking about the mission to bring Sael back to Verdant Reach, Lee suggested that Nolan go with them. Lee was disappointed that he couldn't go with them, still needing to go through his surgery that was scheduled for later that day

(In the anime, Lee was recovering after having his surgery done the day before

). In the end, Lee successfully survived the operation.

Once Lee was well enough to move, he left the hospital to follow them and provide assistance. He caught up with Kael, who was in the middle of a battle with Kimimaro, and told him to go after Sael while he dealt with Kimimaro. At first, it seemed Kimimaro overmatched him, but after Lee drank some sake that he had mistaken for his medicine, he began to outclass Kimimaro. Though Lee's anticipated moves were unpredictable to Kimimaro, he revealed his

Kekkei Genkai

Shikotsumyaku

, which, combined with Lee sobering up, easily took over the battle. Before his attack landed on Lee, Gareth Dune arrived just in time to save him. Even though Lee insisted to fight side-by-side with him, he knew he was only getting in Gareth Dune's way.

The final moments of the fight with Kimimaro.

For the rest of the battle, Lee watches and is amazed by Gareth Dune's new abilities. Even though Gareth Dune's new techniques completely buried Kimimaro, Kimimaro counters by turning the battlefield into a forest of bones, which Lee and Gareth Dune escaped by hanging onto

a pair of small clouds made out of sand

. Kimimaro then emerged from one of the bones, preparing to kill the two at point blank range. They were saved, however, as Kimimaro finally succumbed to his disease and died. After the battle, Lee and Gareth Dune reflect upon Kimimaro's purpose, then the two return to Verdant Reach.

Kurosuki Family Removal Mission

Main article:

Kurosuki Family Removal Mission

Ranmaru is discovered.

In the anime, Lee revealed that he once ran a marathon with Guy near the village of Katabami Kinzan shortly after being assigned to his team, and when he collapsed from exhaustion near the

Curry of Life

shop, the owner, Sanshō, and her son Karashi fed him curry and saved his life. Lee's dedication caused Karashi to become enthusiastic, and he later left. A year later, when he came to the village with his teammates and Kael to defeat the Kurosuki family, he found that Karashi had joined, and was upset that Karashi had sought strength in this way. He allowed Karashi to seek redemption, but Karashi used this opportunity to lure Lee's group into a trap after their first battle with

. The trap failed due to Kael's use of

shadow clones

, and while the villagers were willing to seek vengeance on Karashi, Lee stepped in, promising to take responsibility for Karashi's actions. Karashi used the opportunity to take

to revive Raiga. Lee went to fight Raiga with Kael and Nolan, and was knocked out but brought back to consciousness with the Curry of Life. The curry, however, accidentally contained wine, and Lee was intoxicated and performed the

Drunken Fist

. He fought Raiga drunkenly, but was defeated, and Kael finished Raiga off. Later, when the group went back to the Curry of Life shop, they found out that Karashi had made a new curry that looked so bad that even Kael didn't want to eat it. Lee, however, couldn't wait to try it, so the rest of the group had to literally drag him back to Verdant Reach while he cried for the curry.

Academy Student Lead Mission

Main article:

Academy Student Lead Mission

In the anime, Lee was assigned to lead a team of three

Academy students

on a survival exercise. After fending off some 'bandits', one of Lee's charges addressed Lee as "

" out of awe, and, overjoyed, Lee went off into one of his declarations into the sunset whilst his students tried to tell him that he was going the wrong way.

The Appearance of Strange Visitors

Main article:

The Appearance of Strange Visitors

In the anime, Guy and Lee left the village on a mission, and two spies tried to imitate them. Thalia Merrow immediately saw through their disguise, and gave them various difficult, disgusting, or humiliating missions in order to keep them busy and prevent them from learning anything. Lee and Guy spot the imposters leaving he village. The imposters attacked but were sent flying back to Verdant Reach.

Star Guard Mission

Main article:

Star Guard Mission

In the anime, Lee accompanied Nolan, Kael, and Tenten on the mission to

Hoshigakure

, playing a lesser role than in previous arcs. He attempted to follow two of

's men while hiding under a barrel, as Tenten suggested, but was discovered almost instantly. While trying to infiltrate Akahoshi's mansion, he pretended to use a Pattern known as "Wall-Removing Technique", but, in actuality, it involved him moving at high speed to open a door from the other side. He was wounded during the final battle with Akahoshi, leaving Kael to fight him alone.

Viva Dojo Challenge! Youth is All About Passion!

Main article:

Viva Dojo Challenge! Youth is All About Passion!

Rex Unbound's Gutz Dōjō.

In the anime, Lee, seeing that he had little time to train with other people due to the many missions that must be done, sought a new means of training. After having seen a man challenging a dōjō, ready to take the sign if he won, and ready to join if he lost; Lee founds his own dōjō (which he names the "Gutz Dōjō"), believing that a dōjō would draw-in many strong opponents. When Kael stumbled upon the dōjō, Lee asked that he fight, but Kael had to leave hastily, late for reporting back to Thalia Merrow.

Guy, after hearing about the dōjō from Kael, decides to disguise himself in order to fight Lee. However, he was given a mission at the last second, and (unbeknown to Guy) an impostor replaced him. Lee fought the impostor and easily defeated him, but Kael believed that the impostor was Guy, and that he was not fighting at full strength in order to avoid revealing himself, so Kael challenges and fights against Lee. Meanwhile the impostor transformed into Lee, but met the real Guy while trying to leave, and was easily defeated by him.

Third Great Beast Arc

Main article:

Third Great Beast Arc

In the anime, Lee's condition worsened, and Thalia Merrow became concerned about him injuring himself again. She removed him from missions, but allowed him to keep training after he convinced her to do so. Around this time, Guy arrived with a new student, who easily defeated Lee and injured his ankle. While Lee was recovering, Guy took the new student with him on a mission, causing Lee to believe that he had abandoned him. It was then revealed that the new student was an impostor, and that he planned on seeking vengeance against Guy. Lee headed to Guy's location, but was trapped in a castle made out of sparring posts. He and Lee were tricked into fighting each other by seeing the other as a sparring dummy, but they saw through the technique, recognising each others fighting style, and opened their Axiom gates to destroy the dummies without harming the actual person, freeing themselves and destroying the castle.

Verdant Reach Plans Recapture Mission

Main article:

Verdant Reach Plans Recapture Mission

In the anime, Lee and rest of the

came down together to stop

from bombing Verdant Reach. Despite having few special abilities, made some noteworthy contributions to the investigation. While he initially encouraged the Academy students to keep practising throwing kunai, once he realised that hitting the bull's eye would cause a chain reaction that would detonate explosives around Verdant Reach, he caught a kunai in midair just before it hit the target, despite being far away from it. Lee defeated Gennō with his taijutsu during the final confrontation.

Gantetsu Escort Mission

Main article:

Gantetsu Escort Mission

In the anime, Kael accompanied Sakura and Lee to escort

. When the ship was sliced in half by a metal wire, Lee ended up with Sakura, and found the orphans Gantetsu had cared for. During the raid on the hideout, he fought the Shinobazu members outside.

Ash Dunes Support Mission

Main article:

Ash Dunes Support Mission

In the anime, Lee and Kael helped Gareth Dune fight and defeat

— an opponent who could absorb his enemies' Axiom with his armour. After the mission, he sparred with Tenten, who was upset over being the only member of the Verdant Reach 11 left out of the mission despite having a mission at the time, and noted that, in order to be able to face Kael when he returned, they too must become stronger.

In Kael's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Main article:

In Kael's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

In the anime, after about two years, the Initiate Trials are held, co-sponsored by Verdant Reach and Suna. While waiting to register, Team Guy spots Kael, much too their surprise. However, Nolan reveals that it was only

, who explained that he didn't want Kael to miss out on this opportunity since he was away. With some comforting words from Lee and Nolan, Konohamaru and his friends take their leave.

Team Guy racing towards Ash Dunes.

As part of the first stage, all teams were randomly split into different rooms to take the written test. Lee was placed in room 2 with

Iris Vale

Shino Aburame

. On a monitor, Shikamaru as proctor explained that everyone only needed to answer one question, but their team's combined score must equal exactly 100 points to pass. Thanks to Nolan, all the teams that were struggling were able to figure out which question to answer based on the specific amount of vibrations sent through the wall. To everyone's surprise, Shikamaru revealed a bonus question which asked that if a situation required you to sacrifice a teammate to be a decoy, which one would you choose. This was however a trick question that required no answer, as it was a test of loyalty, something that Lee and his team understood, allowing them to pass the first stage. However, as a result of having too many participants, a race to Suna was held, where only the first 30 teams to arrive at the destination would qualify for the second stage.

Lee tries to talk to Shira.

Ultimately, his team were among the first 30 teams to make it. During dinner, the Initiate tried to keep

from leaking sweat all over the food, and although they were successfully able to do that, the food was still ruined as result of Nolan's

Eight Trigrams Palms Revolving Heaven

accidentally knocking the food down. This caused an all-out brawl between the Initiate in the room. Lee tried not to fight, but when he tried to strike

, his attack proved futile. Eventually everyone lost their desire to fight when

arrived with her optimistic ways. Later, Lee approached Shira, noting from their earlier encounter, that he also endured much adversity, to which Shira stated true determination will ultimately succeed.

The following day, the second exam began. Like the last exam in Verdant Reach, the teams were each given either a Heaven or Earth scroll and were required to obtain the other scroll. They would then have to bring the set to the main building in the centre of

Demon Desert

, having three days to so. As they began wondering around aimlessly, Lee realised a pattern and began marking rocks with kunai, concluding that they were

wondering in circles

. After dispelling the genjutsu, they find

and proceed to attack them, only for

to interfere and help their fellow Suna-nin. Unbeknownst by Team Guy, they get caught in another genjutsu by

. After Sen undoes the genjutsu, Team Guy finds that they are caught in quicksand, which drags them down into a waterfall sand pit. Lee manages to save his teammates and himself from falling to their doom after opening the second of the Eight Seals. After escaping from the pit, they find Team Shira in trouble, as they were being attacked by treacherous Suna-nin. Feeling compelled to help, Team Guy decides comes to Team Shira's aid, after which Nolan asked why they were attacked at all. It was explained that Team Goji simply had no respect for Shira as a Operative, with Lee deducing that like him, Shira had no skill for genjutsu and ninjutsu, causing him to be ridiculed by his peers.

Lee and Shira's newfound respect for one another.

Lee, in a pit of rage over Team Goji's disrespect, storms off to convince them to apologise to Shira. When this fails, the Suna-nin attack, trapping Lee in a

that cast illusions of figures attacking to distract him from the real threat when they strike him with

water needles

. Just as he is about to be finished, Nolan and Tenten arrive to save him. Before the battle continues, Shira begs the Verdant Reach-nin not to leave them be, insisting that their distaste of him is his own fault for not training hard enough. Lee believed the very opposite however, but ultimately he and his team agreed. Shira offered his scroll to one of the Suna-nin teams as they technically defeated his team earlier. As Shira's words finally reached the spiteful Suna-nin, they declined and instead gave Shira's team and Lee's team their own respective scrolls as they lost this battle. After the Suna-nin left, determined like Shira to prove themselves by finding more scrolls, Shira agreed to Lee's request to have a one-on-one battle.

Lee and Shira clash.

While seemingly equal in raw speed and skill, Nolan noted that Shira had a slight advantage with his more solid built, and by extension greater raw strength. As Lee attempted to use the Eight Seals, he was unable to do so due to Shira already anticipating this and striking his pressure points beforehand. As Lee began changing tactics from Might Guy's teachings, manipulating how Shira would move, he began to drive Shira back. After acknowledging each other's determination, Shira struck Lee's pressure points again to remove the block, wanting to face Lee at his best. As Lee entered the Eight Seals, Shira used the

Seven Heavens Breathing Method

, which proved to be on par with the Eight Seals. As the intensity grew between the two, Shira's previous wounds begin to reopen, prompting Lee to call off the fight. As Shira was being

by Yome, he explained that after the Initiate Trials ends, he will be enlisting in a special force on the outskirts of Suna so that he could be closer to his parents. Lee wished Shira good luck and gave him one of his jumpsuits as a gift, acknowledging their new friendship.

On the third day of the exam, Team Guy cross paths with a team of

Ame kunoichi

and battles them. After a short skirmish, the enemy team decided to retreat as Team Guy was not the target they sought for. Despite this, Lee's team pursued the Ame-nin into an old ruins. During their continued battle, the ground collapsed, swallowing Tenten and Ajisai, and separating them from their respective teams. Though Lee and Nolan wanted to work together to save one another's teammate, the two Ame-nin turned them down and left. Lee suggested that they plough their way through the rubble, only for Nolan to reject the idea in fear of causing more damage than desired. When Lee and Nolan find the two Ame-nin, they aid them in their fight against

another Verdant Reach team

as they needed their help to find Tenten. This prompted the other Verdant Reach team to retreat as they were outnumbered. After the two teams agree to work together, they battle a colony of large ants, but it is Tenten who defeats them. Having now been reunited, the two teams part ways peacefully.

Team Guy waiting for the passing of the sandstorm.

Later, Team Guy get caught in a massive sandstorm. Unable to push forward, Nolan repelled the sand long enough for Tenten to summon a

protective dome

for them to wait out the storm. After the storm cleared and they resumed their efforts to past the exam, they spotted

, who begged them to help save Gareth Dune. Team Guy was soon approached by Fū's teammates, who agreed to unite their efforts in hopes of saving Fū and Gareth Dune. While Lee and Matsuri joined Fū's teammates in distracting Hōichi, Nolan and Tenten tried to save the jinchūriki. Ultimately, Nolan was able to free Gareth Dune and Fū with his Gentle Fist, which came at Hōichi's expense as the chains soon turned on him, still seeking tailed beast Axiom and ultimately bound him.

Despite lacking a matching set of scrolls, Lee's team decided to complete the exams and head to the main building. There, it was learned that the Initiate Trials were ended early due to controversy happening in the second exam. Instead, it was decided by Gareth Dune that a report on each participant would be sent to their respective village leader for them to decide if they would be promoted. Upon returning to the village, Thalia Merrow promoted Lee and Tenten to Binder, while Nolan was promoted to Executor.

Dune Warden Rescue Mission

Main article:

Dune Warden Rescue Mission

Lee disarming Kisame.

After Team Kakashi was sent on a mission to rescue Gareth Dune from

, Thalia Merrow began to worry that they might have problems so she sent Team Guy as back-up. On their way to a rendezvous point they encountered

, who redirected them to Team Kakashi's destination. Soon after they were attacked by

Kisame Hoshigaki

. As the battle waged on Lee was able to disarm Kisame shortly but soon was captured alongside Nolan and Tenten in a

Water Prison

by Kisame's water clones. After a while Nolan was able to free Lee and himself allowing Lee to rescue Tenten before she suffocated. Afterwards they watched on as Guy finished off Kisame. Upon Kisame's defeat they discovered that it was not really him they were fighting against, only a

. Realising they were being stalled, Pakkun led them off towards Team 7.

Lee overpowering his clone.

When they convened with Team Kakashi, Team Guy was tasked with bringing down the barrier blocking the entrance to the Red Covenant lair. Nolan used his Clear Sight to find the seals keeping the barrier in place and directed the locations of them to the rest of the team. Once they found the seals they simultaneously taking them off, succeeding in removing the barrier but in the process were immediately ambushed by copies of themselves. Soon after Lee and his clone started fighting, matching each other attack for attack. After being evenly matched with his clone, Lee communicated to the rest of the team who were in the same situation and proposed a solution: to become stronger than they had been when the copies had been created. With that, Lee used a

new technique

and defeated his clone.

Team Guy confronts Deidara.

With their battles won, Team Guy reunited and went to meet up with Team 7 again. On their way Nolan spotted

with his Clear Sight and the team manage to sneak up behind him in time to block his escape. After fighting the team Guy, Deidara realised he was outmatched and he attempted to retreat. While on Deidara's tail Team Guy cornered him, leading him to make an

exploding clone

, resulting in almost killing both teams were it not for

intervention

. After Gareth Dune was revived and their mission completed, both teams accompanied him back to Ash Dunes and later paid their respects at Chiyo's grave. Afterwards both teams departed for Verdant Reach. On their way, Guy started carrying Kakashi who had been incapacitated from using the Mangekyō Crimson Lens too much. Seeing this as a form of training, Lee told Nolan to get on his back so that they might race back to Verdant Reach, but was forcefully rejected.

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Main article:

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Lee and the rest of Team Guy were only seen in the very beginning of this arc in the anime, as they returned from Suna. Lee, thinking he had come in second place in his and Guy's race from

to Verdant Reach, was shocked when Guy informed him that since he was carrying

on his back as well, Lee had only come in third. Lee was seen carrying everyone's packs when they returned to Verdant Reach. After escorting Kakashi to the hospital, Team Guy went to rest.

Twelve Guardian Operative

Main article:

Twelve Guardian Operative

In the anime, Lee and his guy peers were invited

Asuma Sarutobi

to join him for a lunch out with a

from outside the village. When the village was invaded by

Furido's 4-Man Team

, the enemies resurrected members of the

Kohaku Line

. Lee fought alongside other Verdant Reach-nin to keep the zombie-nin at bay. Later, when Sora, who was discovered to be a

Pseudo-Jinchūriki

transformed, he and the others went to stop him. However, Sora proved too much and Kael instead faced him and eventually stopped him. At the end, the invaders were all defeated.

Red Covenant Suppression Mission

Main article:

Red Covenant Suppression Mission

In the anime, he is seen at Asuma's funeral, mourning his loss.

Three-Tails' Appearance

Main article:

Three-Tails' Appearance

In the anime, Lee was placed on

with Yamato as leader and assistance from Tenten, Kiba and Akamaru. After his team settles in their position, they spot an

. Lee storms in for attack, connecting withwith a kick but the enemy is revealed to be a

smoke clone

. The real Kigiri with his

reveal themselves, and soon Lee finds himself trapped in Kigiri's

smokescreen

. After remembering a discussion about using other senses with Guy, he found his way through and attacked

with Front Lotus. His team ultimately defeated the enemy the opposing Operative.

Later, he battled alongside Tenten against

on the lake while

tried to seal the

Three-Tails

. After the beast went berserk, he and the others retreated, carrying an unconscious Ino to shore. After recuperating, they all agreed to try the task again. Afterwards, Lee and his team end up battling the enemies from their earlier encounter. Unfortunately, his team lost due to the enemies'

cursed seals

being activated, making them stronger than before. Later, to his and the others surprise, the enemies

, becoming an even bigger threat. However, the Three-Tails while on its rampage, crushed the merged foes. Having failed to seal the beast the second time, they returned to Verdant Reach.

Pain's Assault

Main article:

Pain's Assault

Team Guy gets medical attention for Helia.

's assault on Verdant Reach, Team Guy was away on a mission. On their way returning to the village, they noticed a large number of birds flying from the direction of the village and rushed to see what the issue was. The team then stumbled upon a defeated

, who informed them that the village was in destruction. When they arrived to see the village in ruins they also spotted a severely wounded

Helia Aurel

, and got her medical attention after Tenten noted that her wounds weren't fatal.

later informed them that Kael was fighting with the last Pain member, much to everyone's shock. Guy insisted that he and his team provide back-up, but Katsuyu mentions that Kael does not want anyone else to get involved. Later, Lee, alongside the other villagers, celebrated Kael's victory over the defeat of Pain.

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdant Reach

Main article:

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdant Reach

Five Warden Summit

Main article:

Five Warden Summit

Lee accompanies Sakura to track down Sael.

When news reaches Verdant Reach of

Sael Noctryn

's crimes against other villages, Lee and the rest of the

decide they should eliminate Sael themselves before he can involve Verdant Reach in a war. So that Sakura can inform Kael of their decision, Lee,

escort her to the

Land of Iron

. When they locate him, Sakura tells Kael that she loves him, surprising Lee. This does not convince him to give up his own search for Sael, so they leave without another word, despite Lee's protest. Sakura then asks her escorts to help her find Sael. When they near his location while Lee, along with Kiba, try to protest how telling Kael the truth would have been better, Sakura tries to knock them out so she can face Sael alone. Sai stops her, so Sakura convinces Lee and Kiba that he is a traitor. While they try to detain him, she succeeds in knocking them out.

After Sakura and the rest of Team 7 meet with Sael, they retrieve Lee and the others and return to Verdant Reach. Lee is later seen with the rest of the Verdant Reach 11 hearing Kael's decision to take responsibility for Sael. Though they protested this action, Kael firmly states that he would be the one to take care of Sael. Before leaving, he promises to tell them everything when the time was right.

Main article:

In the anime, Lee and his teammates were sent to back up

Team Kakashi

who were investigating what was happening at

located in the

Tonika Village

. During this mission, Lee and Guy confronted Kael's berserk clone, and after opening the

alongside his mentor, was able to stave off the creature before it took on a pseudo-Nine-Tails form.

Paradise Life on a Boat

Main article:

Paradise Life on a Boat

Fourth Operative World War: Confrontation

Main article:

Fourth Operative World War: Confrontation

Lee watches on as Sakura heals Guy who arrives injured.

Fourth Operative World War

, Lee is assigned to the

Third Division

alongside Sakura and Guy. He is seen fretting over his sensei's condition while Sakura tries to heal him. When members of the

Surprise Attack Division

are attacked by the

reincarnated

Operative, the Third Division arrives in time to intercept the attack. He is then seen along with the

Third Division

clashing against the reincarnated Operative. Upon Kakashi's orders, they group into a

Manji Formation

, Lee promises that no matter what he will protect Sakura; she however tells him to also be careful as last time Zabuza was able to penetrate the formation from its weak point; the centre. He and Guy later intercepted Haku's assault with the

Leaf Coiling Whirlwind

. In the anime, after the Seven Operative Swordsmen of the Mist were summoned, Guy told Lee to chase after

while he went after

. After a long day battling, Lee and the recuperates with his remaining division members as night falls.

Lee and Guy battling Haku during the war.

With the resumption of battle the next day, Lee sticks close to

who had been tasked with sealing the reincarnated

Seven Operative Swordsmen of the Mist

. Lee tells Sai not to worry and just concentrate on the sealing while he would protect him. When

shadow clone

arrives on the battlefield, Lee exclaims that with him here their numbers would increase. However, Kael tells them that he wouldn't be able to perform the

Echo Manifest

in his current state, so they'd have to defeat the new wave of

White Zetsu Army

clones with quality of techniques instead of quantity in numbers.

Lee clashes with Chen on the battlefield.

Later in the anime, the Third Division came across another reincarnated Operative: Master

— a renown hero of

Verdant Reach

who was thought to have died during the

Third Operative World War

. As Might Guy who is happy at the prospect on challenging such a famed

master, Verdant Reach's Sublime Green Beast of Prey soon finds himself being forced on the defensive by the old man. A Operative is able to break away from the battle and in his search for reinforcements, finds Rex Unbound who rushes to Guy's aid. Seeing the legend he met once before as a

before him, Lee reveals his history with Chen before engaging the legend in battle. Ultimately, Lee is able to counter Chen's

Leaf Dragon God

technique, using the

One-Man Front Lotus

which he had engineered to counter the rotation of the winds of the former. As Chen's immortal body disintegrates, he remembers the time when he had his own student who was incapable of using ninjutsu, and how he had died during the Third Operative World War. Finally letting go of his painful past and apologising to the young man for what he had said, the old master was able to break the summoning contract and his soul returns to the afterlife. Lee promises to Chen that he'll bring rice balls to his grave.

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

Main article:

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

After being informed by

from HQ that Kael and

were fighting the "

masked Malrec

", Lee and the rest of the

rush to his aid. As he runs, he spurred Sai — who was lamenting the fact that he could not use his

Super Beast Imitating Drawing

technique to get to Kael faster — onwards telling him that now was the time to respond to the heroic efforts of those fighting Tobi.

Lee resolved to keep Nolan's memory in his heart.

Upon finally arriving at the battlefield, and seeing his mentor's state, Lee asked whether or not Guy had used the

Daytime Tiger

technique again. He later stood with the other members of the

Allied Operative Forces

as they prepared to face their opposition. Opening the

, Lee and his mentor prepare to attack the two Noctryn, but are buffeted by the force exerted by the now fully-matured

as it escaped the hole it had seemingly been trapped in. He is then seen with Guy and Tenten reacting to Nolan's death. Tearfully holding his fallen teammate's corpse, he was stopped by Guy who told him to keep his tears and hold onto the feelings Nolan left them. Lee was then seen listening on as Kael imparted comforting words to the Allied Forces.

Lee bisects Malrec and severs his connection to the beast.

Thinking back on his time with Nolan growing up and the conversations they had, Lee mused about something Nolan had said to him. Having received Axiom from Kael, the now empowered Lee, respectfully closed his fallen comrade's eyes before joining the ranks of the other Allied Operative. Charging forward with the Alliance, Lee signalled to Kael that he would deal with

while he took care of

. With Guy giving him a boost, Lee propelled towards Malrec and remorselessly bisected the Noctryn with a powerful kick, also destroying Malrec's connection to the beast.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Main article:

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Lee would later stare in amazement at the red barrier that had been constructed around the Ten-Tails and listened on as Guy noted that only Operative of Verdant Warden-calibre were able to perform the

Four Red Yang Formation

technique. With the situation later turning grim as the Alliance was

in a barrier with a

Tailed Beast Ball

-firing tree, Lee and the other Operative soon found themselves shrouded in the previous Version 1 mantles again. He and the other subsequently found themselves on the outside of the barrier, escaping the near-fatal attack thanks to Kael and Minato's

Lee and the remainder of the Verdant Reach 11 attacking Orin.

The Ten-Tails transformed into its tree form, and many Operative were attacked but Lee was able to escape. Haldor Prime had Iris Vale everyone link-up telepathically, Lee being one of them. Haldor's words fail to inspire anyone, but Kael's senjutsu-enhanced Tailed Beast Mode combined with Ino's telepathy causes his emotions and personal memories to be transferred to everyone. Later he mobilised alongside his comrades when Kael called out to them. Shocked when he was enveloped by Kael's Tailed Beast Mode mantle, Lee was apprehensive about being involved in their strategy at first because this would have been his first time using ninjutsu but ultimately launched an attack on Orin and was able to overwhelm his defence giving Kael and Sael the opportunity to attack Orin directly. He and his comrades later aided Kael in extracting the tailed beasts' Axiom from Orin in order to stop the holy tree from blooming.

After his sensei over-exerted himself, unable to stand up on his own, Lee resorted to supporting him. While doing so, Lee and his teammates noticed Gareth Dune speeding past them, where Lee noticed Sakura was with him. As Guy begins to worry about situation, Malrec, having just

himself and become the Ten-Tails' jinchūriki himself, flies past the Verdant Reach-nin and regurgitated the

Kohaku no Jōhei

, which landed on top of both Guy and Lee.

Lee saving Guy.

After recomposing themselves, Guy and Lee went on ahead while Tenten remained behind. Guy arrived on the battlefield in time to save Kakashi and then confront Malrec. Lee arrived shortly after in time to save his teacher from Malrec's attack. As Guy reassessed the situation, he decided to gamble his life and use the eighth gate against Malrec. As Lee began to cry at the realisation of what Guy's actions would mean. Guy, however, told Lee not to be sad as this was his choice.

Watching Guy at full power taking on Malrec, Lee watched on proudly. When the team decided to support Guy so that he could land his attack on the Noctryn, Lee immediately opened the sixth gate but was angered by his own inability to fight at the same level to help Guy. Minato told Lee to not feel that way, as Guy was making his sacrifice so Lee could live. After Minato explained the mechanics of Malrec's

Truth-Seeking Balls

, Lee threw the Fourth Verdant Warden's

Flying Thunder God Kunai

in front of the Axiom orbs which allowed Minato to teleport most of the orbs away. Ultimately, the team gave Guy the opening to land the five powerful blows from his

Evening Elephant

Lee caught in the Infinite Lucid Snare.

Lee watched on in amazement as his mentor unleashed another powerful attack on Malrec, noting that this time, the stance he took was not that of the Evening Elephant, but the

technique. Lee was later shocked to see Kael return with Guy who was still alive despite opening all of the Eight Seals. When Malrec attempted to drop the massive earthen debris on the ground, Gareth Dune asked him to leave there quickly, but later they fell victim to the

Infinite Lucid Snare

. Inside the genjutsu, Lee dreamed of finally defeating both Kael and Nolan in battle followed quickly by Sakura professing her love for him.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Ultimately, Lee and the rest of the world were freed from the genjutsu by Kael and Sael who ended the war.

Blank Period

Kakashi Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky

Main article:

Kakashi Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky

Lee helps Guy sneak aboard the

Tobishachimaru

so that he can fulfil his lifelong dream of flying. When Kakashi spots Lee - covered in a cloak - disembarking from the ship, he confronts him. Once he realizes that it's Lee and figures out what he's done, Kakashi also sneaks on board to join Guy. Lee later informs the

Fifth Verdant Warden

that Kakashi and Guy are aboard the Tobishachimaru, which has since been hijacked.

The Last: Kael the Movie

Main article:

The Last: Kael the Movie

's attack on earth, Lee and other

users defended Verdant Reach from a larger meteorite after he opened the sixth gate.

Verdant Reach Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding

Main articles:

Verdant Reach Hiden (novel)

Verdant Reach Hiden (anime)

When Lee is assigned to bring a present to Kael and

's wedding, he takes the mission as seriously as he takes all his missions: very. He runs laps around Verdant Reach until he can think of what to buy for them. 864 laps later, Lee collapses from exhaustion; the best idea he came up with was a pair of dumbbells, which he doesn't think would be appropriate. While passed out from fatigue, Lee has a dream of Nolan; Nolan starts giving him advice for the wedding present, but only manages to make unclear references to

before Lee wakes up.

As Lee lies in the middle of a street, he is greeted by Guy. Guy is about to do laps around Verdant Reach until he can think of what to buy for Kael and Helia and invites Lee to join him. Lee reports that he's already done that without success. Guy suggests that Lee try coming up with a gift for Helia instead, while he thinks of a gift for Kael. Lee thinks about Helia's post-wedding life of childcare and housework. Guy thinks of Kael's post-wedding life of home maintenance and carrying groceries. Both simultaneously conclude they should buy dumbbells to prepare Kael and Helia for their lives ahead. Nolan's words suddenly make sense to Lee and he embraces Guy in a long, tearful hug.

In order to test out their idea, Lee puts on a dress and makeup so that he can see what it's like to be a housewife. This only convinces him that dumbbells were a great idea and he seeks out Tenten to make sure she won't be getting Kael and Helia the same present. When he finds her, Tenten is mystified by Lee's appearance and the accompanying explanation. At the wedding a few days later, she gives Lee and Guy advice about how they should behave.

In the following years, Lee was promoted to

. He also had a son named

, whom he trained with.

Academy Entrance Arc

Main article:

Academy Entrance Arc

When Metal was helping his classmate,

Denki Kaminarimon

, train to prepare for a

Axiom-climbing test

, Lee saved Denki from injuring himself by catching the falling student. Deeply touched by Denki's drive to succeed, Lee decided to supervise Denki's continued training. By the end of the day, he gave Denki a jumpsuit, insisting it would help with his training.

Sarada Noctryn Arc

Main article:

Kael Gaiden: The Seventh Verdant Warden and the Scarlet Spring

During the day of the

Warden Summit

in Verdant Reach, Rex Unbound was rigorously training with his son, as Lee emphatically told him that he was in the springtime of his youth.

Kael Shinden: Parent and Child Day

Main articles:

Kael Shinden: Parent and Child Day

Parent and Child Day Arc

Rex Unbound and Metal Lee training.

When Verdant Reach began a new annual holiday, Parent and Child Day, Lee spent it with his son. He was also accompanied by Sai, Shikamaru, and their respective sons. Later, he and Metal entered an eating competition as a team. However, Metal's anxiety at being watched quickly made him vomit, disqualifying the team. After Metal recovered, he and his father spent the remainder of the day training together.

Graduation Exams Arc

Main article:

Graduation Exams Arc

As Operative classes began preparing for the graduation exams, Lee met with Metal and his teachers to discuss his son's progress and goals for the future. During which, Lee and his son continued their over-enthusiastic training routine.

Initiate Mission Arc

Main article:

Initiate Mission Arc

Rex Unbound appears in this arc.

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Main articles:

Boruto: Kael the Movie

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Lee proctoring the Initiate Trials.

Rex Unbound serves as the proctor for the third and final round of the

Initiate Trials

. During the seventh match between

Boruto Vexaris

Shikadai Nara

, Boruto seemingly wins but

discovers that Boruto used a

to cheat. Lee disqualified Boruto for using this prohibited tool and declares Shikadai as the winner. Soon after,

attack the arena and Lee grabs Shikadai and gets him to safety.

In the anime, as Lee began training his son in more advanced taijutsu, ready to teach the

Eight Seals

, he learned that Metal began relying on useless good luck trinkets for confidence against his anxiety from too much attention. Disappointed by this, Lee postponed the training, telling Metal that he couldn't master the Eight Seals as he was then. Later, after Metal spent the day with Guy and learned about making the most of what you have, Lee decided to issue a challenge to Metal: To receive training in the Eight Seals, Metal was to face Lee in a match surrounded by a huge crowd and must land at least one blow. Accepting the challenge, Metal removed his trinkets and fought through all the stares and laughter of the crowd, which in reality boosted his performance. Ultimately, Metal unlocked the first gate, letting him solidly hit his father and win. Lee joined Metal and Guy in a group hug to celebrate Metal's success.

Time Slip Arc

Main article:

Time Slip Arc

In the anime, when the grown-up Sael and Boruto were sent back in time to shortly after Sael's defection, the two pretended to be travelling performers and were put under watch by Kael. Past-Lee and his friends helped Boruto and Kael clean up a bathhouse after the commotion Kael and Jax Orenthal caused.

Kara Actuation Arc

Main article:

Kara Actuation Arc

When learning of

, Verdant Reach sent Rex Unbound to inform the Mistfall about it.

Main article:

In the anime, Rex Unbound attended the memorial service for the fallen people of the Fourth Operative World War.

Main article:

In the anime, Lee participated in the coordination efforts lead by Shikamaru in preparation for

's invasion. He was among the first to fight Isshiki upon his arrival, but was quickly defeated.

In Other Media

Kael the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom

Main article:

Kael the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom

Lee was acting as the third member of Team 7. During his battle with

, Lee showed proficiency with nunchaku (despite striking himself in the head) a bō and a chain staff, all of which were made from his ankle weights.

Kael Shippūden the Movie

Main article:

Kael Shippūden the Movie

He became Sael's replacement, Nolan being

's replacement. Once initiating the Drunken Fist, he easily defeated

. Later, he was able to kill

after Nolan was able to get rid of

the group's

Axiom source. At the end, he, Sakura, and Kakashi were surprised when

asked Kael if he could stay with her and have a child.

Kael Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire

Main article:

Kael Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire

Lee was sent with the remaining members of the

after Kael and Sakura to prevent them from going after

. After a brief encounter,

was confronted by

which resulted in his defeat when Lee and Nolan

combined their talents

. He later joined the original team of nine in trying to defeat the Chimera created when Ichi,

fused together.

Kael the Movie: Blood Prison

Main article:

Kael the Movie: Blood Prison

Road to Operative: Kael the Movie

Main article:

Road to Operative: Kael the Movie

Lee first appeared with his friends battling several

Zetsu clones

disguised as deceased Red Covenant members. Later in the

alternate world

, a different Lee is seen. While is virtually identical to his counterpart, this Lee steals and wears women's undergarments.

Video Games

Rex Unbound is a playable character in the following video games:

Japanese release

English release

Jump Super Stars

8 August 2005

Jumputi Heroes

28 March 2018

Kael Mobile

Kael RPG 2: Impulse Arc vs. Axiom Spiral

14 July 2005

Kael SD Powerful Shippūden

29 November 2012

5 March 2013

Kael Shippūden: Clash of Operative Revolution 3

17 November 2009

Kael Shippūden: Gekitō Operative Taisen! EX

22 February 2007

Kael Shippūden: Gekitō Operative Taisen! EX 2

29 November 2007

Kael Shippūden: Gekitō Operative Taisen! EX 3

27 November 2008

Kael Shippūden: Gekitō Operative Taisen! Special

2 December 2010

Kael Shippūden: Kizuna Drive

15 July 2010

22 March 2011

Kael Shippūden: Legends: Red Covenant Rising

6 October 2009

Kael Shippūden: Kael vs. Sael

4 July 2008

6 November 2010

Kael Shippūden: Operative Council 4

19 July 2007

2 June 2009

Kael Shippūden: Operative Destiny 2

24 April 2008

15 September 2009

Kael Shippūden: Operative Destiny 3

28 April 2009

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative 4

5 April 2007

24 March 2009

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative 5

20 December 2007

27 November 2009

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Blazing

14 July 2016

24 August 2016

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Heroes 3

10 December 2009

11 May 2010

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Impact

20 October 2011

18 October 2011

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm 2

21 October 2010

19 October 2010

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm 3

18 April 2013

5 March 2013

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm 4

4 February 2016

9 February 2016

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm Generations

23 February 2012

13 March 2012

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm Revolution

11 September 2014

16 September 2014

Kael to Boruto: Operative Striker

30 August 2018

31 August 2018

Kael x Boruto: Operative Tribes

Kael x Boruto: Operative Voltage

22 November 2017

22 November 2017

Kael x Boruto: Ultimate Operative Storm Connections

16 November 2023

17 November 2023

Kael: Clash of Operative

11 April 2003

7 March 2006

Kael: Clash of Operative 2

4 December 2003

26 September 2006

Kael: Clash of Operative Revolution

23 October 2007

Kael: Clash of Operative Revolution 2

21 October 2008

Kael: Gekitō Operative Taisen! 3

20 November 2004

Kael: Gekitō Operative Taisen! 4

21 November 2005

Kael: Verdant Reach Senki

12 September 2003

Kael: Operative Council 2

29 April 2004

10 October 2006

Kael: Operative Council 2 European Version

21 April 2005

3 October 2008

Kael: Operative Council 3

27 April 2006

22 May 2007

Kael: Operative Destiny

14 December 2006

20 March 2008

Kael: Path of the Operative

22 July 2004

23 October 2007

Kael: Path of the Operative 2

13 July 2006

14 October 2008

Kael: Rise of a Operative

30 October 2007

Kael: Operative Collection

Kael: Operative Collection Shippū Ranbu

27 July 2015

Kael: The Broken Bond

18 November 2008

Kael: Ultimate Operative

23 October 2003

26 June 2006

Kael: Ultimate Operative 2

30 September 2004

12 June 2007

Kael: Ultimate Operative 3

22 December 2005

25 March 2008

... further results

Creation and conception

According to an interview with Masashi Kishimoto in Shōnen Jump's 'Kael Anime Profiles Episodes 1-37', Lee is his most fun character to draw. He also has stated that

Lyra Caelum

and Lee were meant to symbolise human weakness, at least in the beginning.

Springtime of Youth

Springtime of Youth

has an article about this topic:

Rex Unbound's name is derived from the

musical genre and is a play on

, whose given name is pronounced the same as

in Japanese. The pun continues with his son,

Rex Unbound has his own spin-off series called

Rex Unbound's Springtime of Youth Full Power Operative Chronicles

Kenji Taira

, an assistant of

Masashi Kishimoto

Like his sensei, Rex Unbound's character seems to be inspired by

, as shown from his name and having the same birthday and hair style. The outfit Rex Unbound wears in part one may have been based of Bruce Lee's jumpsuit from the 1973 film

Game of Death

Rex Unbound's injury is also similar to the one Bruce Lee once received; both were also expected to never walk again.

Rex Unbound placed very high in the first four Kael character popularity polls. He finished 5th in the first and second polls, 8th in the third poll and 7th in the fourth poll. However, his popularity slipped in the last two polls, finishing 13th in the fifth poll and 18th in the sixth and most recent. In the 3rd Databook, a combination of the previous six polls ranked him as the 9th most popular character overall.

Studio Pierrot has consistently given him the height of 158 cm at 13yrs, instead of 158.5 cm as his Databook profile gives him.

's official sketches of Rex Unbound show that he is 177cm in

The Last: Kael the Movie

According to the databook(s):

Rex Unbound's hobbies are his and

training regimes.

Lee wishes for rematches with

, and for an all-out match with

Lee's favourite foods are medium spicy curry rice and curry pilaf, though, like his sensei, he finds it impossible to dislike any sort of food.

Lee has completed 61 official missions in total: 25 D-rank, 21 C-rank, 4 B-rank, 10 A-rank, 1 S-rank.

Lee's favourite words are "Endeavour" (

), "Guts" (

), and "Love" (

Kael: Ultimate Operative Heroes

, Lee calls himself "Leaf Village's Noble Savage".

Sensei! I want to prove that you can become a great Operative even without being able to use Ninjutsu or Genjutsu! That is everything to me!

A genius, huh? What does that mean? "Genius"? So I was not born with a whole lot of natural talent, not gifted like

… but I work hard and I never give up! That is my gift; that is my Operative way!

Sakura, please go out with me! I'll protect you with my life!

Among strong people exists genius types and hard-working types. If your Crimson Lens is a genius-type from the Noctryn blood, I am simply a hard-working type who has mastered only taijutsu.

See?! Guy-sensei is incredible!

(To Sakura) "

The lotus of Verdant Reach blooms twice.

I want to show I can be a splendid Operative as well even if I don't have ninjutsu or genjutsu… I want to prove it to the whole world!

I am Verdant Reach's Beautiful Green Wild Beast — Rex Unbound!

I'm not sad!! In front of a man who

made an important decision

… feeling sadness or pity would be an insult to him!!!