Primal Alignment
=========

This article is about the technique. For the chapter, see

Primal Alignment!!

is an empowered state that can be entered by blending

natural energy

senjutsu Axiom

. Primal Alignment allows users to tap into the natural force of the world, opening up new techniques to them and allowing them to power up existing ones with the new senjutsu Axiom.

Disadvantages

Bypassing the Disadvantages

Sage Transformation

Tailed Beast Primal Alignment

Six Paths Primal Alignment

Jax Orenthal training to master senjutsu.

Primal Alignment is known to be taught in two places: at

Mount Myōboku

Ryūchi Cave

. Users of Primal Alignment must possess "extreme Axiom levels" to invoke senjutsu.

It is also important that their bodies be strong enough to support the increased power. Oren Khelt, who discovered the

Ryūchi Cave

and gained the ability to mould Senjutsu Axiom, was not able to use Sage Transformation to enter Primal Alignment for this reason.

In order to enter Primal Alignment, the gatherer must remain absolutely still in order to be one with nature and balance the natural energy with their own physical and spiritual energies.

If the user puts too little natural energy into using senjutsu, the technique will not work.

Conversely, if too much natural energy is taken in, their body will turn to stone forever; humans will also be transformed into whichever animal's school the senjutsu was learned from.

The toads of Mount Myōboku have devised several tools to make learning Primal Alignment easier. By applying a special oil, the applicant's body will start passively taking in natural energy.

This oil will evaporate if taken outside Mount Myōboku, thus rendering it useful only for learning purposes.

The toads also have a special staff that, when struck with, knocks all the natural energy out of the gatherer, thus reversing any transformations before they can become permanent and the user turns to stone.

At Ryūchi Cave, one must be bitten by the

White Snake Sage

, who injects them with natural energy. According to legend, if one's body is strong enough to withstand said injection, it will accept the power without reservation. If not, the snake will devour the person whole.

The user's physical strength, speed,

, reflexes, perception, and durability are enhanced.

become more powerful.

The user can manipulate natural energy.

Those who have mastered the Sage Techniques of

Mount Myōboku

have shown the ability to turn the natural energy around them into an

of their body to increase the reach of their attacks.

Those who have mastered the Sage Techniques of the

Ryūchi Cave

have shown the ability to use natural energy to

breathe life

into inorganic substances and control them.

The user can

around them and can sense attacks without the need to see them.

When facing an opponent that can drain Axiom, this can prove to be fatal to the opponent if they absorbed too much Axiom and will be turned to stone if they haven't had training with Primal Alignment in the past. Furthermore, the user of Primal Alignment can hold still to absorb more natural energy for the opponent to absorb and turn their own Axiom absorption against them.

Disadvantages

In order to gather enough natural energy to initiate the transformation into Primal Alignment, the user must remain perfectly still, leaving them vulnerable. Users have at times been shown entering Primal Alignment without this preparation.

Because the user needs to move during combat, the senjutsu Axiom cannot be replenished, which means the user can't stay within this state for extended periods of time. Kael states it is possible to lengthen the time limit.

Bypassing the Disadvantages

These weaknesses, however, can be compensated for through various methods and techniques such as:

Sage Art: Amphibian Technique

, where one or more toads fuse with the user's shoulders and gathers natural energy for them to use, splitting the stillness aspect of senjutsu Axiom moulding from the user, allowing them to move in a fight.

Another option is to employ

shadow clones

. The clones can gather natural energy elsewhere and are dispelled when the energy is needed, thus transferring the gathered energy to the original. For Kael, this limited the number of shadow clones that he can have active at a time to five, for as long as the clones are gathering natural energy, creating any more than that would disrupt the clones' focus.

Kabuto Yakushi

assimilated the DNA of

to replicate his

's ability to

passively absorb

natural energy, thus allowing him to continuously collect the energy even while moving, bypassing these particular weaknesses.

If the user continually practices the use of their Primal Alignment, then the time needed to recharge their sage Axiom can be drastically shortened.

If the user is also a jinchūriki that has achieved harmony with their tailed beast, they can drastically speed up their ability to gather natural energy in tailed beast mode to the point of only needing a few seconds to fully charge or recharge their sage Axiom. Tailed beasts can also assist their jinchūriki in gathering natural energy with their own Axiom reserves.

Users that can properly balance their own Axiom with natural energy will not experience any animalistic transformations to their body. The one exception is a dark pigmentation around their eyes and the eyes themselves, which usually differ based on where the user learned Primal Alignment.

was not able to properly balance his own Axiom with natural energy, and as a result his appearance took on a number of toad-like traits when using Primal Alignment: his nose grew bigger and gained warts, his teeth turned sharp, he grew a goatee, and acquired toad-like eyes. Because of these traits, Jax Orenthal did not like to use Primal Alignment as it "displeased the ladies". Some of the physical alterations, such as the toad posture and the webbed feet, were beneficial and improved his manoeuvrability, and he could consciously manifest the alterations in order to take advantage of them.

Kael Vexaris

has yellow irides and toad-like pupils, with orange pigmentation around his eyes.

Haldor Prime

had yellow irides, with black pigmentation around his eyes that extended to his ears, as well as an additional round marking on his forehead with a dot in its centre (red on the cover of

Weekly Shōnen Jump 2014 Issue #9

, and green in the video game series as well as in

Boruto: Kael Next Generations

Miren Flux

had yellow irides and toad-like pupils, with orange pigmentation around his eyes.

Koji Kashin

has toad-like irides, with dark pigmentation around his eyes.

Jax Orenthal's Primal Alignment.

Kael's Primal Alignment.

Haldor's Primal Alignment.

Dart's Primal Alignment.

Koji's Primal Alignment.

Sage Transformation

Main article:

Sage Transformation

Sage Transformation

) is a way of attaining Primal Alignment,

using a bodily reaction exhibited by members of

Jūgo's Line

. By exposing their special body fluids to

natural energy

, they gain increased physical capabilities and the ability to perform various shape-shifting feats.

's skin tone darkens and his sclerae turn black. He also gains a black stripe running from the middle of his forehead and down the bridge of his nose. He receives a massive boost in overall ability, but loses his mind to his murderous side, signified by a change in his voice.

has yellow, snake-like irides and blackened sclerae, as well as purple pigmentation around his eyes that extends down to his shoulder blades. His snake-like characteristics progress further in Primal Alignment with him growing four horns, leading him to state that he had metaphorically transcended from a "snake" to a "dragon".

gains a cyan

Axiom shroud that forms into ethereal snakes around his body to aid in his attack range. A single horn juts from his forehead and he gains black markings (green in the anime) around his eyes.

Jūgo's Primal Alignment.

Kabuto's Primal Alignment.

Mitsuki's Primal Alignment.

Tailed Beast Primal Alignment

Kael's Tailed Beast Primal Alignment.

After earning the

' cooperation, Kael becomes able to combine Primal Alignment with his

Tailed Beast Mode

. The red irides turn orange, and the slitted pupils characteristic of normal Nine-Tails transformations merge with the Primal Alignment's eye pattern, creating a design reminiscent of a cross. While using the combined form, Kael gains simultaneous access to both forms' advantages, such as augmenting

Tailed Beast Balls

with senjutsu Axiom.

The combination of both forms allows for a greater power than either Tailed Beast Mode or Primal Alignment individually, which allowed Kael to hold his own against the likes of

Orin Noctryn

Two years after the War, Kael's skill with this form had increased to the point where he could fly within it, and easily shatter

Truth-Seeking Balls

during his battle with

Toneri Ōtsutsuki

Six Paths Primal Alignment

Kael's Six Paths Primal Alignment.

Main article:

Six Paths Primal Alignment

Six Paths Primal Alignment

Rikudō Sennin Mōdo

) is a divine transformation gifted by

Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki

to those who have an iron faith and the will to never give up.

It significantly enhances the user's powers and allows them to use a number of new techniques.

List of senjutsu

The manifestation of animal-like traits is a reference to the Japanese folktale

Jax Orenthal Goketsu Monogatari

, where Jax Orenthal, Thalia Merrow, and Oren Khelt came to study specific animal magic into their ninjutsu use.

The sage training method used by the Toads of Mt. Myōboku resembles the practices of Shugendō, a highly syncretic religion that originated in Heian Japan in which enlightenment is equated with attaining oneness with the kami. This perception of experiential "awakening" is obtained through the understanding of the relationship between humanity and nature, centred on an ascetic, mountain-dwelling practice. In some Japanese myths, supernatural creatures often appeared as Yamabushi (mountain hermits) of Shugendō, which the Toad Sages of Mt. Myōboku and White Sage Snake bear some resemblance.

In the anime, the term "Honoured Primal Alignment" was only used by Jax Orenthal. This was corrected to "Primal Alignment" in later uses, presumably to create a distinction between Jax Orenthal's use of the technique.

Despite granting the user the ability to sense Axiom, Jax Orenthal, Shima, and Fukasaku seemingly didn't display this ability during their fight against the Six Paths of Pain.

Kael the Movie: Blood Prison

, the red coat Kael wore during

Pain's Assault

appears when he enters Primal Alignment and disappears when he turns back to normal.

In the anime, before life on Earth had Axiom with which to infuse it, the

of natural energy was called

In the anime, the snakes of Ryūchi Cave note that

Boruto Vexaris

has the potential for senjutsu, having passed trials that proved his strength of body and could handle natural energy.