Lyra Caelum
=============

Lyra Noctryn

Noctryn Lyra

Verdant Reach

. When assigned to

, she quickly found herself ill-prepared for the duties of a Operative. However, after training under the

, she overcomes her weaknesses and becomes recognised as one of the greatest

medical-nin

in the world. Following the

Fourth Operative World War

, she joined the

Noctryn Line

by marrying

Sael Noctryn

. Later on, she became the Head of the Verdant Reach Medical Department and a

medical ninjutsu

Personality

Axiom Control and Physical Prowess

Medical Ninjutsu

Intelligence

Prologue — Land of Waves

Initiate Trials

Verdant Reach Crush

Land of Tea Escort Mission

Sael Recovery Mission

Land of Rice Fields Investigation Mission

Mizuki Tracking Mission

Mix it, Stretch it, Boil it Up! Burn Copper Pot, Burn!

Verdant Reach Plans Recapture Mission

Yakumo Korvax Rescue Mission

Gantetsu Escort Mission

Ash Dunes Support Mission

In Kael's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Dune Warden Rescue Mission

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Twelve Guardian Operative

Red Covenant Suppression Mission

Three-Tails' Appearance

Varyn Pursuit Mission

Fated Battle Between Brothers

Six-Tails Unleashed

Pain's Assault

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdant Reach

Five Warden Summit

Paradise Life on a Boat

Fourth Operative World War: Confrontation

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Blank Period

Doggydaddy Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky

Shikamaru Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness

The Last: Kael the Movie

Lyra Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze

Verdant Reach Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding

Sael Shinden: Book of Sunrise

Academy Entrance Arc

Sarada Noctryn Arc

Kael Shinden: Parent and Child Day

Graduation Exams Arc

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Sael Retsuden Arc

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

Time Slip Arc

Kara Actuation Arc

Binder Re-Examination Arc

Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc

Labyrinth Game Arc

New Era: Part II

Boruto's Return Arc

Matsuri and Ryū Arc

In Other Media

Kael the Movie: Operative Clash in the Land of Snow

Kael the Movie: Legend of the Stone of Gelel

Kael the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom

Kael Shippūden the Movie

Kael Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

Kael Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire

Kael Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower

Kael the Movie: Blood Prison

Road to Operative: Kael the Movie

Video Games

Creation and Conception

Lyra as an Academy student.

Lyra is the only child of Kizashi and Mebuki Caelum. She had a healthy childhood, raised by her parents without any serious tragedy or complications, unlike her team members. When she entered Verdant Reach's

, a few of the girls in her class started picking on her because of her broad forehead. Lyra tried to combat their teasing by hiding her forehead with her bangs, but this caused the girls to bully her even more.

Iris Vale

, one of her classmates, saw this, and defended Lyra from her bullies and encouraged her to embrace her forehead rather than hide it.

Over the following years, Ino's guidance and friendship helped Lyra become comfortable with herself and develop into her own person. Though she felt indebted to Ino for helping her, Lyra began to feel that she was living in Ino's shadow when she, instead, wanted to be Ino's equal. At some point after she entered in the Academy, Lyra met

Sael Noctryn

and she developed a crush on him. When she told her friends, she was surprised to learn how popular Sael was with the girls. Lyra heard a rumour of Sael being attracted to girls with long hair and she began letting her hair grow to get his attention. A couple of years later, when she learned Ino had a crush on Sael and no longer wanting to be in Ino's shadow, Lyra ended their friendship so that they could compete for Sael's love, thus beginning a bitter rivalry between them and their dislike towards each other. After they were placed in their teams, Lyra approached Ino, bragging about being on Sael's team and declaring she won't lose.

Personality

Inner Lyra.

As a child, Lyra was insecure and highly self-conscious about her apperance, in particular her large forehead, covering it with her bangs. It was not until she met Ino, who defended her from bullies and became her very first friend, that she become more self-confident. At the start of Part I, Lyra typically gives the outward impression of being polite to her superiors, considerate of her peers, and confident in herself. She has occasional moments of bashfulness around Sael and competitiveness around Ino, but otherwise appears quite collected. This reservation, though never disingenuous, frequently masks how Lyra feels: in certain situations, she has pronounced feelings of frustration, anger, envy, jealousy, mischief and joy. Rather than display these emotions to others too openly, she projects them inward, allowing a manifestation of who she truly is — what is labelled "Inner Lyra" (

Uchi Naru Lyra

) — to have the opinions Lyra wants to keep to herself.

Inner Lyra

, whose appearances are marked by an exclamation of "

", is in a sense a personality separate from Lyra herself, a fact that allows her to overcome the

Mind Body Switch Technique

At other times, Lyra and Inner Lyra are indistinguishable from each other, usually with regards to her teammate

Kael Vexaris

. If Kael says or does something that annoys or upsets her, Lyra responds with violence, a reaction that under other circumstances would be delegated to Inner Lyra.

Lyra's motivation to get stronger.

As Part I progresses, Lyra becomes increasingly exposed to the cruel realities of the Operative world, difficulties for which she cannot rely upon Inner Lyra to cope with alone. When she was an Academy student, Lyra succeeded through studying alone to the point of pride. As a

, however, this is proven insufficient as missions cannot be truly completed merely with book smarts, and it is necessary to be able to fight so that other Operative will not kill her or her teammates. The latter makes Lyra particularly disappointed in herself, as she is unable to contribute much in battle and must rely on Kael and Sael to save her. She sets out to change this about herself, dedicating nearly three years of training to making herself as capable as Kael and Sael; in the meantime, she becomes willing to sacrifice herself to protect them, coming to value them both very deeply.

She particularly looks to Kael as a model for her goal, inspired by his rapid growth and his determination to be there for her and all those he held dear. When Lyra realises that she has been as rude to Kael as Sael usually is to her at the latter's urging, she starts treating him a lot better, loudly cheering for his accomplishments, and confiding her hopes and fears with him.

Inner Lyra makes one appearance at the very start of Part II and then is never seen in the series again.

This is because Lyra is finally in touch with her feelings and is willing to express what she is thinking, a self-comfort she picked up during her training with Thalia Merrow, whom she admires deeply as her mentor and leader. However, this expressive side of Lyra has also made her more emotional and impulsive at times. Her desire to catch up in strength with Kael and Sael, her protectiveness of them, and her need to prove her worthiness as a Operative brings forth this dark side of her more easily, which sometimes leads her to attack her opponents rashly and get rescued by her teammates.

Miren Flux

, witnessing her outburst on Kael when he asked if she was his girlfriend, noted that she reminded him of

his own headstrong wife

However, Lyra no longer thinks poorly of Kael, but nevertheless expresses her displeasure and anger with him whenever his immaturity and more idiotic traits surface, often lashing out with violence, demonstrating a very obdurate and stiff-necked nature. Regardless, she has deep respect and trust towards Kael's skills as a Operative, angrily reprimanding and threatening

when he, although deliberately to test her faith in Kael, deemed Kael weak. Yet, she is ever-worrying for his safety and well-being to the point of easily feeling overwhelming guilt, because she values him as one of her closest friends. Even during her attempts to personally deal with a completely rogue Sael, she still finds herself relying on a troubled Kael due to her own shaky resolve, nearly costing Lyra her life. She continues doing whatever she can for her remaining teammate, trying to support his decisions concerning Team 7, helping him bear the challenges of being a

and fighting at his side whenever possible. She is helped in this goal by the influence of Thalia Merrow, who trained her to have a contempt for losing and an unbending will;

as a result, much like her mentor, Lyra will place herself at risk so that others don't need to and to assure the victory of her allies.

Lyra's perverted side.

Despite Lyra violently reprimanding not only Kael, but occasionally

Konohamaru Sarutobi

for their perverted tendencies, Lyra herself has a perverted side which she often keeps hidden. When Konohamaru showcased his

Sexy: Girl on Girl Technique

, Lyra seemingly displayed her disgust at the technique, but Konohamaru quickly countered by quickly creating the

Sexy: Boy on Boy Technique

to spite her, and instead of admonishing Konohamaru for it, she was immediately drawn to the technique, responding with a pleasured screech upon seeing the technique, with the two cloned individuals resembling Sai and Sael. However, Lyra is embarrassed of her own perverted nature, and upon realising her reaction was noticed by

, she quickly tried to make an excuse, but Konohamaru's suspicions that Lyra is just as much a pervert as he and Kael are is all but confirmed.

Lyra has been in love with Sael since childhood; her infatuation for him was rooted in his good looks, prodigious skills and calm, collecting attitude, but as teammates, she came to appreciate his bravery and protectiveness towards his loved ones more. She initially focused on getting his attention above everything else, and his rejections failed to deter her. Despite being grateful of her loving him after she confesses to stop him from defecting from Verdant Reach, he rejects her but genuinely thanks her before leaving.

Sael's defection deeply upsets Lyra, driving her to plea for Kael to bring their dear teammate home and, when Kael fails, motivating her to become stronger so that she can bring Sael back herself.

Her love for Sael sometimes clashes with her duty as a Operative; for example, she tries to separate herself from her feelings when Sael becomes a criminal, even attempting to kill him to prevent a war,

but her love for him proved to be too great for her to harm him.

Even during their shaky alliance during the

Fourth Operative World War

, she still holds out hope that she may mean something to him.

Despite his crimes and betrayals, she was able to forgive him after he sincerely apologised to her for how much he hurt her and others. Lyra was pleasantly surprised when he exhibited a much softer side with her and poke her on the forehead, an affectionate gesture he picked up from his

After marrying Sael, Lyra became very loyal to her husband and refused to leave his side while she was pregnant with their daughter,

, whom Lyra raised on her own due to Sael being away on a mission for many years. Lyra is very patient as her love and patience for Sael never faded even though Sarada was barely a toddler when he left. Although Lyra is very supportive of his duties, she is playfully disappointed when he teases her by refusing to show her affection in public. Likewise, even after years married, she remains as smitten with her husband's good looks as ever.

As a mother, Lyra is loving, affectionate, understanding and very protective towards Sarada. For years, Lyra frequently reassures Sarada that Sael loves them both and will return home once his mission is over, much to her daughter's rightful anger and disappoinment. Nevertheless, Lyra and Sarada have a very close relationship; Lyra will praise Sarada for her achievements just as quickly as she admonishes her for her wrongdoings, and will honestly apologize to her daughter when she makes mistakes. Their dynamic remains as strong as ever after Sael is more free of his mission, and the entire family strives to spend more time together even with their duties to the village.

Lyra has fair skin, green eyes, and pink hair. In her childhood, she wore her hair as bangs in order to cover her large forehead and fend off her classmates' calling her "Forehead Girl" (

English TV:

Billboard Brow). Ino encouraged her not to do this anymore and wear her hair back instead, so that others could see her face. Later in her Academy years, she let her hair get longer because of rumours that Sael was attracted to girls with long hair.

During Part I, when she realises that long hair is a vulnerability in combat situations, she cuts her hair and keeps it under shoulder-length from that point onward, which she sometimes pins up in a ponytail while working.

As she gets older, Lyra is noted to become quite beautiful and attractive, with

likening her looks to Thalia Merrow's own.

Lyra at the start of Part I

Lyra at the end of Part I.

Lyra in Part II.

Lyra during the Fourth Operative World War

In Part I, Lyra wears a red

dress — at various times either with or without short sleeves — with slits along the sides accompanied by a zipper and white circular designs. She also wears tight dark green bike shorts with a shuriken holster around her right thigh, blue sandals, and the standard Verdant Reach

forehead protector

worn as a hairband. Colour illustrations from the manga tend to depict her using nail polish and eye-shadow in Part I, both of which are not present in the anime. In Part II, Lyra's typical outfit consists of a red top with the same design as the upper-half of her Part I outfit. Accompanying this are black gloves, low-heel, knee-high boots, black shorts underneath a short grey apron skirt, and grey elbow protectors (her skirt and elbow protectors are pink in the anime). The cloth of her forehead protector is changed to red and she starts carrying a medical pouch. Lyra wears the standard Verdant Reach infantry

flak jacket

and assorted clothing during the

Fourth Operative World War

. She also gains the

Strength of a Hundred Seal

— in the shape of a violet rhombus — on her forehead, which remains visible thereafter.

Lyra in the Blank Period.

Lyra in adulthood.

Two years after the Fourth Operative World War, Lyra wears a sleeveless red qipao dress that reaches her upper thighs, with white trimmings and a white circular design on the back similar to her Part I attire; it is tied with a black obi. She wears black shorts underneath the dress, black gloves, and pink elbow and knee protectors. She has also changed her previous boots to regular black, high heeled Operative sandals. In adulthood, Lyra's attire consists of a red sleeveless qipao top that exposes her navel, the back of which carries the

Noctryn Line

crest and falls to her knees. She also wears light-coloured pants, high heels and a red headband. For battle, Lyra wears a red top similar to her Part II one, with the Noctryn Line crest on the back, elbow protectors and flatter sandals. At home, she often dons a long white apron and keeps her fingernails long and well-manicured. She also wears white bracelets on both her wrists.

Lyra defeating dozens of Ten-Tails clones.

As a Initiate, due to her focus on her studies, Lyra lacked any particular combat skill, other than the basic skills she learned in the Academy. This greatly limited her role in missions, to the point where she frequently noted how much she relied on her teammates, Sael and Kael. On one occasion, she is even stated by Shikamaru to be: "A kunoichi with no particular talent". Determined to change herself, she undergoes intense training with Thalia Merrow for two-and-a-half years. From Lyra's display of skill in the earlier portions of Part II, many notable Operative have remarked that she would likely surpass Thalia Merrow.

Upon completing the

Strength of a Hundred Seal

Fourth Operative World War

, Lyra has finally caught up to her teammates at the time.

Two years later, she rised to the rank of

By adulthood, her prowess has even led to her being recognized by

as a suitable replacement for Kael as

Axiom Control and Physical Prowess

While Lyra has rarely been seen using

in Part I, she was able to hold her own against Ino, one of the top students in her class.

After Thalia Merrow's training, Lyra's taijutsu improved to the point that she could easily destroy a large number of the puppets controlled by the

In the anime, Lyra’s taijutsu prowess has improved in adulthood as she can go toe to toe with a

Mangekyō Crimson Lens

wielding opponent like

Shin Noctryn

Lyra releasing her Strength of a Hundred Seal.

As seen in Part I, Lyra's most defining skill was her proficiency in

Even as a Initiate, she could greatly augment her speed by sending Axiom to her feet, impressing both Kael and

Such exact use of her Axiom allows her to perform a

with maximum efficiency without wasting much Axiom, which

Doggydaddy Gray

noted had already surpassed even Sael's.

Training under Thalia Merrow for over two years refined Lyra's already impressive Axiom control, becoming a vital part to many of her abilities. By rapidly building up Axiom and concentrating it into her fists or other body parts, it grants her what is commonly referred to as

Another goal of Thalia Merrow's training was to increase Lyra's available Axiom supply via completing the

Strength of a Hundred Seal

, which is something that took three years to accomplish.

In the anime, Thalia Merrow explained that building up the seal substantially drains one of their Axiom, making it dangerous to heal or fight, but Lyra developed a way to divert a small portion of that built-up Axiom back into her normal reserves.

After completing the

Strength of a Hundred Seal

, Lyra's attacks are increased with greater input of Axiom and become strong enough to destroy entire buildings and upend the earth.

Similarly, her enhanced strength allows her to lift great mass and free herself from formidable constraints.

With her enhanced physical prowess, she could even get behind

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki

and damage the legendary being with a single blow, breaking off one of her horns.

These feats have led to

Haldor Prime

praising her as having greater raw power than even Thalia Merrow.

Two years later, Lyra figured how to use the Axiom built up in her hands to catch and repel incoming ninjutsu.

Doggydaddy once noted that Lyra's excellent Axiom control is well-suited for

. While never actually seen using genjutsu, due to her affinity for it, Doggydaddy taught her a method to deal with being caught in genjutsu that involves abruptly stopping the flow of Axiom.

She has frequently been shown to quickly identify when genjutsu is being used,

and release herself or others from it.

By adulthood, genjutsu has little to no effect on her and she is able to break out of even some of the strongest ones with ease.

Lyra and Katsuyu heal the tired and injured.

During her training with Thalia Merrow, Lyra has developed advanced skill with

. Upon contact, Lyra can skilfully implant a cherry blossom-shaped seal on a target and, on command, these seals release

red Axiom threads

that completely restrict body movement.

By the Fourth Operative World War, Lyra has completed the

Strength of a Hundred Seal

. When the seal is

, she has access to all the accumulated Axiom, totaling a so-named hundred-times her usual Axiom levels, and since she doesn't need to waste any of it on

maintaining

a youthful appearance like Thalia Merrow does, she is able to perform techniques on a much greater scale than she is normally able to.

She can also transfer the Axiom to others, either to replenish or amplify their own.

Shikkotsu Forest

. Noted to be incredibly impressive by

, she can have Katsuyu

split apart

and attach itself to others so she can then

monitor many allies at once, heal their injuries and replenish their Axiom as needed.

Yang Release

By adulthood, she has learned how to use

Fire Release

In addition, Lyra has become a highly skilled

through her unique mastery of Axiom manipulation which allows her to roughly

entire structures by channelling her Axiom through inorganic materials; doing so allows her to detect threats, traps, and hidden rooms.

Medical Ninjutsu

Lyra extracting poison from

The major purpose of Thalia Merrow's training was to teach Lyra

medical ninjutsu

, which demanded Lyra's refined Axiom control and intelligence. Thalia Merrow remarks that her proficiency for healing is exceptionally rare.

As such, Lyra can

even the most fatal of injuries.

Even when she was heavily injured, she demonstrated the ability to quickly heal herself to halt further blood loss, managing to do so with the weapon still lodged within her body.

By her early adulthood, after anticipating an attack, she can send Axiom throughout her entire body to nullify the damage of normally lethal blows.

In the anime, Lyra can perform a

highly difficult operation

alone to regenerate a missing section of a person's body.

If traditional medical jutsus prove ineffective, Lyra can make

in her patients to try and directly treat the vital organs of her patients.

Lyra can cure those who have been poisoned by

the toxins from their bodies, while simultaneously repairing the damage — something which even poison-experts like

After Kael became the Seventh Verdant Warden, he even named Lyra as the head of Verdant Reach's Medical Department because of her extraordinary medical ninjutsu prowess.

Besides Thalia Merrow, Lyra is the only

medical-nin

who can use

Creation Rebirth

, the most advanced medical Pattern; it puts the user's body in a state in which it

heals itself

so that she doesn't need to stop to treat herself or even be fazed by injury.

Her dominion over this Pattern exempts her from many of the laws that govern the modern system of medical-nin, for example, allowing her to fight in the frontlines. Though Lyra rarely uses her medical ninjutsu in combat, she is more than able to do so. When dealing with an enemy with an extremely resistant body, she can combine her Axiom-enhanced fists with her medical ninjutsu to heal the resulting damage from her strikes, eventually killing the affected cells from over-replication,

as shown when she single-handily defeated

Kido Tsumiki

empowered by a

Tailed Beast Drug

This new Pattern of hers might be the Healing Power Alteration Technique (

Yuryoku Hensei no Pattern

) she named by the time of

Boruto: Kael Next Generations

Lyra manually pumping Kael's heart.

Lyra's medical expertise extends to more standard medicine as well. She is able enough to perform autopsies and examine cells due to her damage, demonstrating her keen knowledge of genetics.

She can perform emergency techniques such as manually pump hearts and carry out respiration via mouth to mouth resuscitation, as shown during the Fourth Operative World War when, after

was removed from Kael, she was able to prevent through these techniques until they were able to reach Dart and eventually saved him. Lyra was taught by Thalia Merrow how to create an effective antidote after analysing the poison's contents, even for poisons that Sasori did not believe anyone but himself could make antidotes for,

and how to blend powerful fast-acting sleeping gas.

She was similarly taught by Shizune on how to concoct poisons that, when coated on weapons, could debilitate or paralyse a person with a single scratch.

In the anime, Lyra even created her own version of

Military Rations Pills

, intended to have more medicinal purposes and be easier to consume.

Intelligence

Lyra completes the Initiate Trials' written test without the need of cheating.

While she was at the Academy, Lyra always got perfect scores in all of her tests.

It is because of her diligence in her studies that she initially struggled in combat situations, for this reason, she was added to

so that she could benefit from the more battle-oriented Kael and Sael, while in turn, they would benefit from her knowledge. She was able to answer the written portion of the

Initiate Trials

all by herself without needing to cheat, something that

were not expected to be able to do.

Sael deemed her analytical skills to be superior to his

as well as for her remarkable memory and observational skills.

She is capable of immediately memorising and understanding large amounts of information, including minute details, a skill very useful for Operative missions and medical studies.

Lyra's intelligence is consistently useful, making her observational enough to guess an opponent's tactics from a brief scan of the battlefield and pick up on otherwise minor inconsistencies in conversation.

In her battle against Sasori, a few observations were enough to learn his attack patterns.

Upon her brief encounter with

, she was able to quickly and accurately deduce his

unique abilities

During her time in the

Logistical Support Division

, she demonstrated the ability to quickly piece together multiple pieces of information she's previously come across in order to form a hypothesis when she figured out the

White Zetsu

Substitute Technique

In actual combat, Lyra shows herself to be rather cunning because she frequently relies on misleading her opponents, either by letting them think they have outsmarted her so that they lower their guard,

or letting them think they have defeated her so that they will approach her, and she can defeat them with a single punch.

Intelligence

Prologue — Land of Waves

Main article:

Prologue — Land of Waves

Team 7's group photo.

Upon graduating from the

and being assigned to

, Lyra is initially devastated when she learns that

Kael Vexaris

is to be one of her teammates. She then is immediately afterwards ecstatic to learn that

Sael Noctryn

is to be her other teammate. She tries to bond with Sael by stating her envy of Kael's lack of parents, but this only offends Sael, who tells her that she is annoying. Lyra is hurt and, on realising that she says similar things to Kael, decides to try to be nicer to him. Team 7's leader,

Doggydaddy Gray

, tests their qualifications with a

, stating that whichever of the three takes one of the two bells on his person will officially become

. While Kael busies himself attacking Doggydaddy, Lyra seeks out Sael to see if she can help him. Doggydaddy finds her during her search and defeats her with an

illusion of Sael dying

. Likewise, Kael and Sael are also defeated. Doggydaddy explains afterwards that the goal of the test was to use teamwork, to do together what none of them could do by themselves. He is persuaded to allow them to try again after lunch, but instructs Sael and Lyra not to feed Kael. Sael feeds him anyway, needing him in top-form if they're to work together, and Lyra does the same. Doggydaddy sees this and, because they care more about the team than listening to his instructions, allows them all to pass.

Team 7 protecting Tazuna.

After a series of uneventful

missions, Kael is able to secure a

mission for Team 7: escorting

Land of Waves

. Soon after leaving Verdant Reach they are attacked by the

Demon Brothers

, who go after Tazuna. Lyra immediately places herself in front of Tazuna to protect him and stands her ground until Doggydaddy captures the brothers. Tazuna confesses that assassins have been hired to kill him but that he couldn't afford the bodyguard detail he needs. Although the mission is now

in nature — far beyond the skill of Initiate — Team 7 decides to continue with it. When they reach the Land of Waves and are attacked by

Zabuza Momochi

, Lyra once again protects Tazuna while Doggydaddy, and later Kael and Sael, fight Zabuza. Zabuza is ultimately seemingly killed by

, allowing Team 7 to escort Tazuna back to his house.

Doggydaddy finds Zabuza's death suspicious and decides to train the team in case he returns. He has them perform the

Tree Climbing Practice

to improve their Axiom control, which will help them against Zabuza. Lyra masters the exercise on her first try, thus leaving her in charge of protecting Tazuna while Kael and Sael train and Doggydaddy recovers from his fight with Zabuza. After a week, the rest of the team joins her, but when they reach the bridge that Tazuna has been working on they find Zabuza and Haku waiting for them. Sael and later Kael fight Haku while Doggydaddy fights Zabuza, once again leaving Lyra in charge of protecting Tazuna. The

prevents her from seeing how the fight against Haku is going, so she is surprised when Haku suddenly interferes in Doggydaddy's fight with Zabuza and is killed.

Lyra cries for Sael.

When Kael comes looking for Haku, Lyra asks him where Sael is. When Kael refuses to respond, Lyra becomes worried, but stays put because she cannot leave Tazuna's side. When Tazuna offers to come with her, she quickly leads him to where Sael is and finds him seemingly dead. Overcome with emotion, Lyra knowingly violates the

Operative rules

and cries for him. When Sael later wakes up, Lyra embraces him, explains that Haku has been killed, and shares the news of Sael's survival with Kael. Zabuza also dies, allowing Team 7 to return to Verdant Reach when their injuries heal via Tazuna's newly-constructed

Great Kael Bridge

Initiate Trials

Main article:

Initiate Trials

Team 7 resumes its series of unremarkable missions. After returning from one mission, Lyra tries to spend some time with Sael, who rejects her. This places Lyra in a bad mood, causing her to lash out first at Kael when he suggests to

Konohamaru Sarutobi

that he and Lyra are dating, and then at Konohamaru when he insults her for harming Kael. This all attracts the attention of

Three Sand Siblings

, who have come to Verdant Reach to take part in the

Initiate Trials

. Sael returns and drives the Sand Siblings off, and later Doggydaddy meets with them to enter them in the Initiate Trials as well. He neglects to mention that they must enter as a team, worried that Lyra might only participate because of Sael, and so is glad when she independently decides to participate. Before the Initiate Trials begin, Lyra is met by

, who asks her to go out with him and offers to protect her with his life. Lyra flatly refuses, being bothered by his eyelashes, hair style, and thick eyebrows.

Lyra tries to forfeit the written exam for Kael's sake.

For the Initiate Trials' first stage, the participating Initiate are given a written test with ten questions. From looking over the questions, Lyra realises that the questions are too complicated for most Initiate, especially Kael, to be able to answer without cheating; Lyra herself is able to answer the first nine questions on her own. Before being given the tenth question, Initiate are warned that if they answer it incorrectly they will never be allowed to take the Initiate Trials again. Lyra becomes worried that Kael is too proud to not try to answer the question, and that when he inevitably gives the wrong answer his disqualification will ruin his dreams of becoming

. She prepares to forfeit on his behalf, but Kael insists on answering the tenth question no matter what, causing her to change her mind. For their willingness to face the tenth question despite the potential consequences, Team 7 and the remaining Initiate pass to the second stage.

For the second stage, teams enter the

Forest of Death

for a five day survival challenge. Shortly after the second stage begins, Team 7 is attacked by

, who Sael and Lyra, sensing his

killing intent

, realise is far too strong for them to fight. Sael tries to surrender in exchange for their lives, but Kael insists on fighting Oren Khelt anyway. Both Sael and Lyra are surprised by how well Kael does, though he is ultimately defeated and knocked unconscious. Lyra pins him to a tree with a kunai to stop him from falling and observes to Sael that Kael, despite all his shortcomings, isn't a coward. This convinces Sael to fight Oren Khelt as well; Oren Khelt becomes impressed by Sael and, before he leaves, he brands Sael with a

Cursed Seal of Heaven

, rendering him unconscious as well.

Lyra cuts her hair.

Lyra moves Kael and Sael to a secluded area where she watches over them through the night. In the morning, they are tracked down by

, Oren Khelt's underlings who have instructions to kill Sael. They bypass the booby-traps she laid earlier and move in on her, but she is saved by Rex Unbound. Lee fights Team Dosu by himself, planning to make good on his earlier promise to protect her, but is eventually defeated. Lyra begins attacking Team Dosu herself, but she is restrained by

, who grabs her by the hair and berates her for how much time she clearly spends on it. Determined to not keep needing the help of others, and motivated by Kael and Sael, Lyra cuts her hair to free herself and starts attacking, persevering despite

's many counterattacks.

Lyra stops Sael.

Lyra's courage convinces the observing

Iris Vale

and the rest of

to come to her defence. Team 10 fights Team Dosu until they are interrupted by Sael, imbued with the power of his cursed seal. When he sees Lyra's injuries, Sael breaks Zaku's arms in punishment and threatens to do the same to the rest of his team. Lyra is horrified by his actions and embraces him, begging him to stop. Sael's cursed seal recedes and he complies, Team Dosu retreats, and Teams 7, 10, and Lee's

regroup. When Kael wakes up he makes fun of Lee's eyebrows, prompting Lyra to strike him. Before they go their separate ways, Lee vows to Lyra that he will become stronger.

Lyra and Ino knock each other out.

Team 7 spends several days recuperating from their ordeal but they are able to reach the centre of the forest in time to advance to the Initiate Trials' preliminaries: a series of one-on-one qualifying matches. Lyra tries to convince Sael not to participate because of his cursed seal, but he ignores her, insisting that it's his business and not hers. For her match, Lyra is paired against Ino. They start by trading insults and then punches, surprising Ino because Lyra proves her equal in both categories. Frustrated, Ino follows Lyra's earlier example by cutting her hair, a ruse that allows her to immobilise Lyra while she uses her

Mind Body Switch Technique

. In control of Lyra's body, Ino tries to make her forfeit the match, but she is stopped and exorcised by Inner Lyra. They are both exhausted by this, due to both having used up all their Axiom, but exchange one final blow, knocking both out.

When Lyra wakes up, Ino informs her that their match was ruled a tie, and that therefore neither of them will continue to the final rounds. Despite this, they decide to rekindle their friendship, though can't help but continue to bicker over Sael. Lyra watches the remaining matches, including Lee's match with

, during which Lee loses and is badly injured. A few days later, Lyra visits the hospital to see Sael, but discovers he's already been taken away by Doggydaddy. While she's there, she sees Lee training despite his injuries, causing him to fall unconscious as a consequence; she leaves the flower she brought for Sael with him instead. Lyra worries about Sael over the following month, especially when he is missing for his match with Gareth Dune during the finals. He does finally show up (late), and Lyra watches with interest.

Verdant Reach Crush

Main article:

Verdant Reach Crush

Lyra defends Sael.

Sael's match is interrupted by an

invasion of Verdant Reach

descends on the stadium where the finals are being held, putting most of the audience to sleep. Lyra is able to dispel the genjutsu, attracting the attention of invading

forces. She is saved by Doggydaddy, who instructs her to wake up Kael and

Silas Korr

. She does so (though Shikamaru was only pretending to be asleep) and when they're assembled, Doggydaddy sends them and

after Sael, who is pursuing Gareth Dune. Oto-nin start following them, so Shikamaru falls behind to delay them. Kael and Lyra catch up to Sael in time to save him from one of Gareth Dune's attacks. When Gareth Dune sees Lyra's determination to defend Sael, he knocks her unconscious and binds her to a tree. Her bindings dissolve when Gareth Dune is defeated, which Lyra assumes she has Sael to thank for. Sael corrects her when they get back to Verdant Reach, explaining that it was Kael who saved her.

A few days later, Team 7 attends the

Third Verdant Warden

's funeral.

Land of Tea Escort Mission

Main article:

Land of Tea Escort Mission

In the anime, Team 7 is sent to the

Land of Tea

Idate Morino

as he runs a race. When

Aoi Rokushō

try to stop Idate, Kael and Sael fight them while Lyra remains alert for opportunities for Idate to run to safety. Sael is eventually knocked out by Aoi, and Lyra looks after him until Aoi is defeated by Kael. After Idate wins the race, Team 7 returns to Verdant Reach.

Sael Recovery Mission

Main article:

Sael Recovery Mission

Lyra attempting to stop Kael and Sael.

Lyra visits Sael everyday while he's in the hospital, tearfully hugging him once he finally regains consciousness. She continues looking after him as he recovers, but he repels her kindness, angered by his earlier defeat by his brother,

Varyn Noctryn

. When Kael comes to see him, Sael challenges him to a fight, which Kael agrees to over Lyra's protests. She watches as they exchange attacks on the hospital roof, but decides she can't let things continue when Sael prepares a

and Kael prepares a

. She runs between them to stop them, but neither is able to pull away in time. Doggydaddy appears and flings them apart, saving Lyra. Sael storms off and Doggydaddy, before he follows, promises Lyra that he'll set things right.

Sael thanks Lyra.

Lyra takes Kael aside afterwards and tells him about the cursed seal Sael received from Oren Khelt, which she'd until now kept from him at Sael's request. She shares her concerns that Oren Khelt is trying to tempt Sael to defect from Verdant Reach, but Kael assures her that Sael would never do that. This comforts her at the time, but she continues to worry and, that night, waits at the village's exit. Sael eventually approaches with his belongings, confirming her fears. Sael tells her to go home, but Lyra refuses, instead asking why he always pushes her away and reminding him of all the good times Team 7 has had. She tries to persuade him to stay so that she won't be alone and, when that doesn't work, argues that his revenge against Varyn isn't worth it. When Sael remains determined to go, Lyra tells him she loves him and offers to go with him. Sael tells her that she is annoying, just as he did after Team 7's formation. Lyra threatens to scream for help, so he knocks her out. However, before he does it, he thanks her.

Lyra asking Kael to bring back Sael.

Lyra is found on a bench the next morning, and when she wakes up she sends word to

, the new Verdant Warden, that Sael has defected. The

Sael Recovery Team

is formed to go after him, which Lyra approaches as they prepare to set out from Verdant Reach. Lyra begs Kael to bring Sael back to Verdant Reach, believing he is the only person who can get through to him at this point. Kael vows to do so, even if it takes his entire life, and Lyra cries at his dedication to her. Despite his promise, Kael is unable to bring Sael back. Lyra visits him in the hospital and, after trying to avoid the subject, tells him that she won't hold him to his word. Kael, however, refuses to go back on what he said. Touched, Lyra apologises to Kael for what he's gone through and promises to personally help him bring Sael back next time.

Land of Rice Fields Investigation Mission

Main article:

Land of Rice Fields Investigation Mission

Lyra training under Thalia Merrow.

In the anime, Lyra accompanies Kael and

Land of Rice Fields

to investigate one of Oren Khelt's lairs and potentially retrieve Sael. The mission ends in failure. When they get back to Verdant Reach, Lyra, as in the manga, asks to become Thalia Merrow's apprentice so that she can better meet the challenges she'll face in the future. Realizing Lyra not only has potential but has something she wants to protect (Kael and Sael) just like she did (

), Thalia Merrow heartily accepts and puts Lyra through intense training sessions for the next two years.

Mizuki Tracking Mission

Main article:

Mizuki Tracking Mission

In the anime, Lyra focuses on her training, preventing her from helping Kael with many of the missions he goes on. When he returns from one such mission, she informs him that she's succeeded in healing a fish.

Mix it, Stretch it, Boil it Up! Burn Copper Pot, Burn!

Main article:

Mix it, Stretch it, Boil it Up! Burn Copper Pot, Burn!

In the anime, Lyra helps Kael and

Chōji Akimichi

. To save her from the

cooking-nin

, they must prepare the perfect ramen; Lyra contributes by pounding the dough of the noodles into shape.

Verdant Reach Plans Recapture Mission

Main article:

Verdant Reach Plans Recapture Mission

In the anime, Lyra and Ino examine a corpse believed to be that of

. They conclude that it is not actually him.

Yakumo Korvax Rescue Mission

Main article:

Yakumo Korvax Rescue Mission

In the anime, Lyra helps Kael protect

Yakumo Korvax

Korvax Line

Kurenai Yūhi

is injured during the fight, Lyra heals her wounds.

Gantetsu Escort Mission

Main article:

Gantetsu Escort Mission

In the anime, Lyra, Kael, and Lee guard

as he is transferred to prison.

Ash Dunes Support Mission

Main article:

Ash Dunes Support Mission

In the anime, Lyra and the rest of the

are sent to Ash Dunes to help the Sand Siblings in their fight with the

Four Celestial Symbols Men

; Lyra heals Gareth Dune during his fight with

. Ino, jealous of Lyra's new-found healing abilities, asks to train with Lyra to be a

medical-nin

. Lyra agrees, but Ino is dismayed when Lyra reminds her that she will be her

during the course of their training.

In Kael's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Main article:

In Kael's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Lyra as part of Team 10.

In the anime, about two years after Kael leaves Verdant Reach to train, another Binder Exam is held. Because participants must enter as part of three-man teams, Ino invites Lyra to be Shikamaru's replacement on

since Shikamaru is already a

. During the first exam, Lyra, Ino, and Chōji are seated in different rooms and are tasked with getting a combined score of exactly 100 points on their written test despite their separation. Ino

telepathically contacts

Lyra and Chōji in order to assign which questions to answer. After the initial testing period is over, they are given a bonus question: each team must unanimously select one of their members to disqualify from the rest of the exams. Team 10 selects nobody, which is the correct answer and which qualifies them for the next phase.

Lyra facing Ameno.

Those who pass the first exam must reach the

Demon Desert

within three days in order to participate in the second exam. Team 10 successfully does so and they are given the same objective as they had in the exam several years ago: obtain a scroll from another team. They wander through the desert for three days, losing their provisions to an

While recuperating at an oasis, they are attacked by

. Ino once again telepathically links with Lyra and Chōji to coordinate their attacks and help them locate their attackers, resulting in Team Ameno's defeat. Once Lyra and Ino heal their injuries, Team Ameno offers them their scroll. However, theirs is the same scroll that Team 10 already has, so they are allowed to keep it. They go their separate ways, agreeing to meet again in the third exam.

Lyra and the other Initiate being promoted to Binder.

Team 10 is later attacked by

Ino's mind and forces her to attack Lyra. When Chōji, meanwhile, begins overwhelming Saya's teammates, Saya possesses his mind instead, and she forces him to attack Lyra using his

Super Multi-Size Technique

Ino is able to release Chōji, forcing Team Saya to retreat. Team 10 is afterwards trapped in a

, during which Ino and Chōji are poisoned by a

. Lyra escapes the sandstorm, defeats Team Saya, and then returns to heal Ino and Chōji.

Team 10 is eventually found by one of the exam's proctors, who brings them to where all of the other Initiate are being assembled. They are informed that the Initiate Trials have been cancelled; reports on the participants' performances will be sent back to their villages, leaving their promotion up to their superiors. When they get back to Verdant Reach, Thalia Merrow promotes Lyra, Ino, and Chōji to Binder.

Dune Warden Rescue Mission

Main article:

Dune Warden Rescue Mission

Lyra forces Doggydaddy from underground.

Thalia Merrow informs Lyra of Kael's return after two-and-a-half years of training. She goes to greet him and is initially glad that he's back, but is quickly disappointed when he gets back into a competition of

Sexy Techniques

Konohamaru Sarutobi

. Doggydaddy reforms Team 7 with them and gives them another

, though unlike last time, taking the bells from him is the real objective. Doggydaddy vanishes shortly after the test begins and Lyra, after determining that he's nowhere above ground, concludes he's below ground. To force him out, she shatters the earth with

Cherry Blossom Impact

, surprising both Doggydaddy and Kael. Despite their improved abilities, neither Lyra nor Kael are able to get a bell through conventional means, and it is only by Kael's threat to spoil the latest

book that they are able to lower Doggydaddy's guard long enough to take his bells.

While Team 7 tries without success to find a mission to go on that Kael won't complain about, word reaches Verdant Reach that

has kidnapped

. Team 7 is sent to Ash Dunes to lend assistance in rescuing Gareth Dune. On their way to Suna, Kael explains that Gareth Dune was kidnapped because he is the

, just as Kael is the jinchūriki of the

. When they reach Suna, they are informed that

was poisoned by Red Covenant member

in his failed attempt to rescue Gareth Dune, and that none of the village's medics can heal him. Lyra is able to

remove the poison from his body

, from which she prepares some antidotes, impressing

. Chiyo, Sasori's grandmother, ultimately decides to accompany Team 7 as they leave to find Gareth Dune, helping them navigate the local country.

Lyra destroys Hiruko.

On their way to the Red Covenant lair where Gareth Dune has been taken, they are met by

Varyn Noctryn

, the brother who Sael defected from Verdant Reach in order to kill. Although eager to face him, Lyra must leave most of the fighting to Doggydaddy due to his

; when Kael is trapped in Varyn's genjutsu, Lyra and Chiyo release him. The Varyn is eventually discovered to be an

, so they continue to the Red Covenant lair. They meet

there, who takes down the barrier over the entrance so that Team 7 can get in.

flies off with Gareth Dune's body as soon as they enter, and Kael and Doggydaddy pursue him, leaving Sasori to Lyra and Chiyo. Chiyo informs Lyra that what appears to be Sasori is actually one of his

. She also warns that all of Hiruko's weapons are likely coated with poison. With this in mind, Chiyo

Lyra to Hiruko unharmed, allowing her to destroy it.

Lyra landing a devastating punch on Sasori.

With Hiruko gone, Sasori starts using his

human puppet

Third Dune Warden

. Although it initially appears no different from a standard puppet, such that Chiyo is able to fight it with her

Mother and Father

puppets, the puppet is discovered to have access to the Third's

, which has also been imbued with poison. The Iron Sand neutralises the Mother and Father puppets and then

forms into blocks

, which Lyra, with Chiyo's guidance again, is able to punch away. Sasori's

Iron Sand World Method

proves more difficult to avoid and Lyra receives several scratches, causing her to collapse from the poison. She is able to administer the antidote, however, allowing her to destroy the Third when it moves in to finish her off. Angered by this, Sasori reveals that his own body is a puppet now and he goes after Chiyo. Lyra intercepts him and destroys his body, but he's able to reassemble it.

Sasori brings out his

Hundred Puppet Army

and Chiyo brings out her

Ten Puppet Collection of Chikamatsu

. While the two sides battle, Lyra moves closer to Sasori and places a

on him. Sasori is able to transfer his living core to another puppet before the seal connects, sneaks up on Chiyo, and attacks. Lyra shields the attack with her body and is both fatally wounded and poisoned. While Chiyo gives her the final antidote, Sasori attacks Chiyo again, only to fall into her trap and have his core stabbed by the Mother and Father puppets. Chiyo then heals Lyra's wound. Having guessed that Lyra was able to create an antidote for his poison — something he thought was impossible — Sasori decides to reward her before he dies: he tells her of a spy within

's ranks who he had plans to meet in

in ten days. Chiyo collapses once he's dead, but refuses Lyra's offer to take her back to Suna to make another antidote.

Lyra mourns Chiyo's death.

At Chiyo's request, Lyra carries her to Kael and Doggydaddy, who have managed to retrieve Gareth Dune. Lyra attempts to revive Gareth Dune, but the removal of the One-Tail has caused him to die. Chiyo uses the

One's Own Life Reincarnation

on him, bringing him back to life at the cost of her own. As the Pattern nears completion, Chiyo warns Lyra not to risk her life to protect someone as old as she is again, believing Lyra is too valuable. Gareth Dune is successfully resurrected and, a few days later, Teams 7 and Guy attend Chiyo's funeral in Ash Dunes before returning home.

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Main article:

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

With the intel Lyra gained from Sasori, Thalia Merrow allows Team 7 to begin planning to meet the spy in the hopes that it will help them reunite with Sael. Doggydaddy is left bedridden from his fight with Deidara, requiring

to lead Team 7 as his replacement. The

Verdant Reach Council

also requires that

be assigned to Team 7 as Sael's replacement. Kael immediately dislikes Sai, declaring him an inferior version of Sael. Sai is happy for this distinction and proceeds to degrade Sael for defecting from Verdant Reach. This angers Lyra and she hits him, forcing Yamato to use his

wood release

to break up their fight. Despite this incident, Lyra has difficulty holding a grudge against Sai due to his lack of emotion or interpersonal connections. She therefore tries to mediate between Kael and Sai, explaining to Sai the brotherly bond that Kael feels to Sael. When this fails to make an impression, Lyra gives up on Sai and puts up with him only because they need his help to find Sael.

Team 7 confronts Oren Khelt and Kabuto.

Yamato disguises himself as Sasori and goes to the

Tenchi Bridge

to meet the spy while Kael, Lyra, and Sai hide nearby. The spy,

Kabuto Yakushi

, begins telling Yamato about Oren Khelt's organisation, but they are interrupted by the appearance of Oren Khelt, who teams up with Kabuto to fight Yamato, having intended to kill Sasori. Team 7 comes to his aid and Oren Khelt, recognising them, taunts Kael about Sael. Kael is enraged and strikes him, using the Nine-Tails' power to make his attacks more devastating. The Tenchi Bridge starts to collapse from the stress of his Axiom and Lyra is knocked unconscious in the process. She is saved and revived by Yamato, and is then horrified by the damage that Kael is causing to the surroundings.

Lyra healing Kael.

Oren Khelt is eventually able to force Kael away from himself and closer to Lyra and Yamato. Seeing the lengths he's going to in order to retrieve Sael from Oren Khelt, Lyra tries to reason with him, but his

form leaves him unable to tell friend from foe and he attacks her. While Yamato restrains Kael with his wood release, Kabuto heals Lyra's wound, his thanks to Team 7 for killing Sasori. Yamato is able to suppress the Nine-Tails' influence, but its Axiom leaves his body badly damaged. Lyra heals him, but is upset that it's the only thing she can do to help him. When Kael wakes up he can't remember what happened and assumes Lyra's tears are because of something Sai said, which she doesn't correct. After taking a break when Lyra’s wound starts hurting, she tells Kael her wound was caused by Oren Khelt. While Lyra works on healing herself, Yamato tells Kael the truth. When they realise that Sai is missing, Yamato reports that he has joined with Oren Khelt and Kabuto.

Lyra attacks Sael.

Having placed a

on Sai, Yamato is able to lead Kael and Lyra to him and by extension Oren Khelt's lair. They infiltrate it, locate Sai, and restrain him so that they can go looking for Sael. Kabuto finds them and releases Sai to help him fight them, but Sai restrains him instead, curious about the bond that Kael keeps saying he has with Sael; Sai goes searching through Oren Khelt's lair in search of Sael on Kael's behalf. While he's gone, Yamato goes through his belongings and finds evidence that Sai has been assigned to assassinate Sael. They go after him in order to stop him. When they find him, he explains that he truly does want to help retrieve Sael, and in fact has already found him: Lyra and Kael are speechless to see Sael again, but Sael reacts with indifference to them. To demonstrate that they mean nothing to him, Sael quickly neutralises them all, except Lyra who prepares to attack him. Sael is about to counter her attack before Yamato saves her. He then prepares to kill them, but is persuaded not to by Oren Khelt and leaves without further comment. Defeated, a tearful Lyra tells a devastated Kael they need to get stronger and Team 7 returns to Verdant Reach.

Twelve Guardian Operative

Main article:

Twelve Guardian Operative

Lyra defeats Fuen.

In the anime, Yamato leads Team 7 on a mission to the

Fire Temple

to investigate a series of grave robberies. During the course of the investigation, Team 7 is separated by an

earthen maze

. Lyra is attacked within the maze by a giant spider, but she's saved by Sai, whose arm breaks in the process. She tends his injury and they reunite with Kael and Yamato, but

the grave robbers

escape. Team 7 returns to Verdant Reach, and when the grave robbers attack the village, Lyra is drawn into battle with

. Lyra pretends to fall victim to Fuen's

, allowing her to surprise attack her when she attacks a

decoy of her

, and end it by smashing her into the ground.

Red Covenant Suppression Mission

Main article:

Red Covenant Suppression Mission

Team 7 saves Team 10 from Kakuzu's attack.

Doggydaddy assembles Kael, Lyra, and Sai to discuss their failed mission to retrieve Sael. Lyra shares her suspicion that Sael's skills have been boosted with medication, as his growth rate is unnaturally high. Doggydaddy believes the best way to prepare them for another encounter with Sael is for Kael to invent a new

. Once he finally does so after many days of training, Team 7 is sent to help

in their battle with Red Covenant. Lyra and Sai are sent to provide backup for

Silas Korr

during his fight with

while everyone else focuses on

. When they locate Shikamaru, however, they discover that he's already defeated Hidan. Kael elsewhere defeats Kakuzu with his Pattern, after which they go back to Verdant Reach.

Lyra offers to feed Kael ramen.

Kael's new Pattern injures his arm after use, which Lyra treats in Verdant Reach. Because he has difficulty using the arm while it mends, Lyra tries to help him eat when they visit

Ramen Ichiraku

, but Sai insists on the responsibility. As they leave afterwards, they are met by Konohamaru, who demonstrates his

Sexy: Girl on Girl Technique

. In the manga, Konohamaru responds with

Sexy: Boy on Boy Technique

; Lyra approves but Kael is disgusted and violently reprimands him. Lyra tries to make an excuse when she realises how she reacted, but Konohamaru's suspicions that Lyra is just as much a pervert as he is are confirmed. However, in the anime, Kael approves, and Lyra is disgusted, and violently reprimands him.

Three-Tails' Appearance

Main article:

Three-Tails' Appearance

In the anime, Team 7 is sent to help

in their fight with

. When they come across the

Three-Tails

during the course of the mission, Lyra is assigned to a team responsible for sealing it due to her excellent Axiom control. They are interrupted by Team Guren before they can complete the

Four-Corner Sealing Barrier

, and Lyra tends to the wounded after the Three-Tails goes on a rampage. When Team Guren is defeated, they are recalled to Verdant Reach.

Varyn Pursuit Mission

Main article:

Varyn Pursuit Mission

The Eight Man Squad formed to pursue Varyn and Sael.

News reaches Verdant Reach that Sael has killed Oren Khelt. Realising that this is a good opportunity to try once again to reunite with Sael, Doggydaddy combines Teams 7 and 8 into an

Eight Man Squad

with the mission to find either Sael or his assumed target, Varyn. They split up to look for leads on either Noctryn; because she doesn't have any particular tracking skills, Doggydaddy pairs Lyra with two

. They briefly pick up on the trail of one of Sael's new teammates,

, but they don't realise this and lose the trail shortly afterwards.

Fated Battle Between Brothers

Main article:

Fated Battle Between Brothers

After they regroup,

Kiba Inuzuka

is able to detect Sael's scent and they start to follow it. Along the way they are met by

of Red Covenant, who prevents them from progressing and who is invulnerable to their attacks. Tobi leaves when he receives news that Sael has killed Varyn, and Teams 7 and 8 try to reach Sael before he does. Unable to find where Tobi has taken Sael, they are forced to return to Verdant Reach.

Six-Tails Unleashed

Main article:

Six-Tails Unleashed

In the anime, they are intercepted by a new assignment to help the

Tsuchigumo Line

protect its

forbidden technique

. Doggydaddy takes Team 8 back to Verdant Reach while Yamato leads Team 7 on the mission. During the mission, Lyra helps fight the

Magaki group

and the villagers who are under

's control. Once Shiranami is stopped, Team 7 returns to Verdant Reach.

Pain's Assault

Main article:

Pain's Assault

Lyra kills Pain's giant centipede.

Lyra is present when Kael is informed that

died while investigating the leader of Red Covenant,

. She defends Thalia Merrow when Kael blames her for his death, and then again when Shikamaru tries to get out of helping decipher one of the clues that Jax Orenthal left behind, aware that Thalia Merrow is grieving over Jax Orenthal. Lyra later tries to help Shikamaru decipher the clue, but is interrupted by the

invasion of Pain

. Lyra heads for the

Verdant Reach Hospital

, along the way saving a group of civilians from Pain's

giant centipede

. She assists with healing the injured once she gets to the hospital, doing as much as she can despite there being more people in need of care than medics available.

When Pain destroys Verdant Reach, Lyra and the rest of the villagers are saved by Thalia Merrow with the help of

. Thalia Merrow is exhausted by the effort, so Lyra looks after her while Kael fights Pain. During the battle, Lyra senses Kael entering another version 2 form as a result of Pain's attack on

Helia Aurel

. She has Katsuyu relay a message to the villagers to retreat to a safe distance while she treats Helia. Kael ultimately defeats Pain and, when he returns to the village, Lyra punches him for taking such a risk and then embraces him as thanks.

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdant Reach

Main article:

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdant Reach

stay with Thalia Merrow as the village starts to rebuild. In the anime, they give Thalia Merrow's various visitors updates on her condition.

Five Warden Summit

Main article:

Five Warden Summit

Lyra informs Kael that Thalia Merrow is in a coma and that there's nothing that can be done to bring her out of it. While they talk, they are approached by

, who have come to help rebuild Verdant Reach. They ask about Sael, who which Kael avoids going into detail about so as to spare them and Lyra a discussion about Sael's defection. After Tazuna and Inari leave, they receive news that

Danzō Shimura

has become the next

and that he has ordered Sael be killed as a traitor. Kael and Lyra approach Sai to ask him how they can convince Danzō to change his mind, but Sai is unable to help.

overhear them talking about Sael and they ask for information about Sael, wishing to kill him for his role in Red Covenant's capture of

. This news upsets Lyra greatly to the point of tears, so Kael leads Omoi and Karui away to spare her further distress. In the anime, while watching over a comatose Thalia Merrow, Shizune confirms what she heard about Sael working with Red Covenant, which once again left Lyra on the verge of tears and hoping that Thalia Merrow would awaken soon so the situation with Sael can be resolved.

Lyra painfully accepts that Sael must be stopped at all costs.

Sai later informs Lyra of the abuse Kael suffered at the hands of Omoi and Karui, as he was unwilling to sell out Sael. He also informs her that Kael has gone to meet with the

Fourth Spire Warden

to try and get a pardon for Sael's actions against Kumo. Lyra cannot understand why Kael would do all this, so Sai explains how he believes that it is because he has feelings for Lyra and that he is still trying to fulfil the promise he made to her after Sael left the village years ago, which devastated her. Sai adds that his commitment to that promise and by extension Lyra cause Kael as much pain as Sael does. Shikamaru joins their conversation to inform them of the rest of the

's decision to personally eliminate Sael so that he can't continue to implicate Verdant Reach in his crimes nor present the risk of a war. Lyra tearfully agrees with this and insists to be the one to inform Kael. She also made the others swear to not say anything to Kael before she can, seeing it as her responsibility, while secretly she decide to handle the entire matter herself.

Lyra's team arrives in the Land of Iron.

Lyra forms a team with Sai, Kiba Inuzuka, and

and goes to the

Land of Iron

to search for Kael. When they find him, Lyra attempts to tell him that she loves him and that, because of this, he no longer needs to fulfil his promise regarding Sael, who she claims she no longer has feelings for. However, this enrages Kael, who rejects Lyra by telling her that he hates people who lie to themselves. Lyra then insists rather angrily that it's true and that he should start worrying about himself rather than Sael. Kael still does not believe her and informs her that he wants to save Sael for his own reasons, not for Lyra. Upset, Lyra departs, but when they're far enough away she instructs her team to start looking for Sael. Her team tells her it would have been better to simply tell Kael the truth about Verdant Reach 11's decision and that she's underestimating him by not doing so, but Lyra adamantly says she couldn't do it.

Sael attacking Lyra from behind.

When Kiba finally locates Sael, Lyra has him give her precise directions to where he is. She then attempts to knock out the team with sleeping gas, but is initially stopped by Sai, who has guessed that she plans to personally kill Sael. When he attempts to detain them on Doggydaddy's instructions, Kiba and Lee engage Sai, giving Lyra a chance to use the sleeping gas. She proceeds to where Sael is and announces her desire to join with him, even if that means helping destroy Verdant Reach. To prove her loyalty, Sael instructs Lyra to kill the badly-injured Karin. Lyra approaches her, contemplating how best to strike Sael, but is alerted by Karin that Sael is attacking her from behind with

. Doggydaddy arrives in time to stop him and, aware of what Lyra was planning, volunteers to be the one to kill Sael so that she won't need to, especially when he holds himself responsible for not preventing the situation as his teacher.

Kael saves Lyra from Sael's attack.

Lyra heals Karin's injury and, in her unstable mental state, joins the battle. She starts attacking Sael from behind, but ultimately can't bring herself to harm him and cries at her own failure. Sensing her, Sael grabs her by the throat, takes her kunai, and prepares to kill her with it, but she is saved by Kael. Lyra is shocked that she came close to being killed by Sael, and is further shocked as Sael confesses to killing Danzō and plans to do the same to his former teammates and the village. After briefly fighting, Kael and Sael talk and conclude that only they are suitable to fight each other, which they will do at some future date; Lyra is upset once again that her resolve isn't as strong as theirs and she decides to trust Kael and Sael in fulfilling her dream of Team 7 having a happy ending. After Sael leaves with Tobi, Kael passes out from the poison of her kunai and a panicked Lyra gives him the antidote. Lyra then uses an antidote to wake Sai, Kiba, and Rex Unbound up. After returning to the village, Kael meets with the Verdant Reach 11 as soon as they're back to tell them his decision, which Lyra defends when some of them accuse Kael of being unrealistic, but is concerned about Kael and Sael's promise to fight to the death.

When Thalia Merrow finally wakes from her coma, Lyra goes around the village sharing the good news. In the anime, Lyra is later informed of the upcoming war against Red Covenant from Thalia Merrow, and Lyra, while uneasy at fighting against Sael, is given the task to keep a watchful eye on Kael during the war.

Main article:

In the anime, Team 7 is sent to investigate the attack on

Tonika Village

. They encounter Kabuto Yakushi and are forced to fight his

reincarnated forces

while he escapes. They fight Kabuto and his forces several more times, during one of which Lyra is knocked out by the

Nine-Tailed Kael Clone

, but Kabuto is ultimately driven off.

Paradise Life on a Boat

Main article:

Paradise Life on a Boat

In the anime, Thalia Merrow sends Lyra, Ino, and

Chōji Akimichi

Benisu Island

to pick medicinal herbs. Although the locals initially try interfering, Kael is able to convince them to help instead.

Fourth Operative World War: Confrontation

Main article:

Fourth Operative World War: Confrontation

Lyra healing Guy.

Fourth Operative World War

begins, Lyra is added to the

Third Division

Allied Operative Forces

. Before the armies mobilise for war with Red Covenant, Lyra heals

, whose exhaustion mystifies her. The Third Division is called to assist the

Surprise Attack Division

, and when they arrive Lyra recognises the reincarnated

Zabuza Momochi

amongst the Surprise Attack Division's attackers. When Zabuza asks her how Kael is doing, Lyra replies that he's well. Zabuza and Haku are forced to attack the Third Division, so they take up defensive positions; having encountered them before, Lyra advises those near her to take a

Manji Formation

. When casualties start growing, Lyra heals the wounded.

Lyra defeats "Nolan".

Lyra is eventually reassigned to the

Logistical Support and Medical Division

's compound to heal the wounded that are sent there. During the night, three

medical-nin

are killed despite the major precautions they took to secure the location, placing everyone on high alert. Lyra is approached by

during this time, who she recognises as someone she healed earlier. He gives her a love letter, but she turns him down and explains she is in love with someone else. He wishes her luck with her beloved when he leaves but Lyra is saddened as she thinks about Sael.

visits her after Morio leaves to discuss the suspected killer. When, during the conversation, Nolan proves unaware that

is a pig, Lyra realises he is an impostor and attacks him. The disguise disappears, revealing a

White Zetsu

. From the Zetsu's comments and previous reports she's read about its abilities, Lyra is able to determine how its

Substitute Technique

works and alerts the Allied HQ. She and Shizune later perform an autopsy on the Zetsu's body and discover its

Wood Release

capabilities.

In the anime, during the following day, the Medical Division is attacked by several reincarnated Operative and a scroll of dead Allied forces is stolen. Lyra joins a team to go after them and most of the reincarnated Operative are sealed, but

Hayate Gekkō

escapes with the scroll. She goes after him and fights him until

Yūgao Uzuki

arrives to finish him off. Later, security at the Medical Division remains high, with nobody having an effective way of identifying disguised Zetsu. Two Zetsu eventually bypass bodyguards assigned to Lyra, though she is saved by the arrival of Kael, whose

Nine-Tails Axiom Mode

allows him to find and eliminate all the Zetsu.

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

Main article:

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

The Allied Operative Forces arrive.

With the Zetsu army defeated, the Allied Operative Forces are sent to assist Kael in his fight with Tobi. Along the way, Lyra vows to be there to help Kael. When they arrive, Lyra heals Doggydaddy and Might Guy and then joins in the Allies' attack on the

. The attack fails and many die in the Ten-Tails' counterattack, including Nolan, which shocks and hurts Lyra. However, Kael is able to give protective

-like cloaks to most of the allies in time. When Kael is injured saving everyone from

, Lyra heals him and encourages the other Allies not to give up hope, even in the face of the Ten-Tails'

Tailed Beast Ball

. They are saved by the arrival of the reincarnated

Fourth Verdant Warden

. The Fourth thanks Lyra for healing Kael, his son, and asks if she is Kael's girlfriend. When Kael suggests this is true, Lyra headbutts him and tells him to focus on the situation. Kael complains she gave him more injuries and she retorts she will heal him again.

Team 7 together again.

Sael arrives shortly after the Fourth, intent on joining the Allies so that he can protect Verdant Reach. Lyra is surprised by Sael's sudden arrival and asks him of his intentions, and is dumbfounded, as with the rest of the Verdant Reach 11, by his declaration that he will be Verdant Warden. Kael and Sael prepare to fight the Ten-Tails and Lyra, as she says she is not weak and will assist them as a member of Team 7, joins them. The now reunited Team 7 charges into battle with the Ten-Tails' army of

; after charging her

Strength of a Hundred Seal

, Lyra is able to defeat many at a time and boasts that she has finally caught up with her teammates. Because there are too many Ten-Tails' clones, Team 7 each performs their own

: Lyra summons Katsuyu and has it adhere to all the Allies nearby so that she can

heal them remotely

. While Kael and Sael fight the Ten-Tails itself, Sai asks Lyra if she trusts Sael. Lyra says she is happy he's back and she does trust him. Sai believes her words are truthful, but knows her smile is fake.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Main article:

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Lyra and Thalia Merrow work together.

When Tobi, real name

Orin Noctryn

, becomes the Ten-Tails' jinchūriki, Lyra can only watch from a distance as Kael, Sael, and the reincarnated Verdant Warden fight him. Orin eventually recreates the

, which absorbs the Axiom of many of the Allied Operative Forces. Lyra instructs Katsuyu to heal them, but Katsuyu explains that its

suffered the same fate as the Operative they were attached to. To do what she can, Lyra runs over to Shikamaru and starts trying to heal him. It is ultimately Kael's Axiom which saves Shikamaru and the others, remotely restoring the

cloaks thought absorbed by the God Tree. Thalia Merrow then arrives, congratulates Lyra for the work she's done, and requests her help in summoning an even large segment of Katsuyu. Katsuyu dissolves across the battlefield, allowing Thalia Merrow and Lyra to constantly rejuvenate everybody as they unite against Orin.

Lyra attempts to heal Kael.

Although Orin is defeated,

Malrec Noctryn

another Zetsu

still remain. The prolonged fighting exhausts Thalia Merrow and leaves Lyra and Shizune with little Axiom to spare. When Gareth Dune brings Kael to them, in need of emergency life support following the removal of the Nine-Tails from his body, Thalia Merrow asks Lyra to board Gareth Dune's

Desert Suspension

and lend what support she can. When traditional

medical ninjutsu

fails to do anything, Lyra makes an

in Kael's chest and manually pumps his heart to keep him alive. Lyra works on Kael while she pleads for her dear friend to live because he is close to achieving his dream. Gareth Dune brings them to the Fourth Verdant Warden so that he can seal his half of the Nine-Tails' Axiom into Kael, but the Axiom is intercepted by

Black Zetsu

. When Malrec — the Ten-Tails' new jinchūriki — arrives, Doggydaddy uses

on Lyra and Kael to get them to safety in

Phase Fold's dimension

. They are shortly afterwards joined by Orin, who has decided he wants to help Kael. Though wary of Orin, Lyra allows him to seal the Nine-Tails' Axiom he took from Black Zetsu into Kael, thus saving his life.

Team 7 attacks Malrec.

Kael goes back to fight Malrec when he regains consciousness, leaving Orin with Lyra. She calls Orin an enemy for killing many of her comrades but she is willing to help him as thanks for saving Kael. Orin asks Lyra to destroy his

, explaining it's the only way to guarantee Malrec can't use the

Infinite Lucid Snare

. Before she's able to do so, Malrec arrives in Phase Fold's dimension and Orin sends Lyra away so that Malrec can't kill her. She explains what happened when she regroups with Team 7 and tries healing Doggydaddy after Malrec stole his eye, but Kael instead gives him a new one. As they wait for Malrec's inevitable return, Lyra questions Sael what he meant when he said he would be Verdant Warden, but receives no answer because they have a war to worry about. Sensing Malrec coming, Doggydaddy reminds them of their first lesson as Team 7: the importance of teamwork. When Malrec is brought back by Black Zetsu using Orin's body, Lyra launches the first attack. She is stabbed with a

Truth-Seeking Ball

and is saved by Kael (who grabs her) and Sael (who cuts the rod Malrec stabbed her with). Lyra is saddened because she thinks Sael is not concerned about her. Malrec, now in possession of two Parallax Eye, ascends into the sky and, despite Kael and Sael's attempt to stop him, casts the Infinite Lucid Snare.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

While the world around them falls to the Infinite Lucid Snare, Sael uses his Aegis Manifest to shield Kael, Lyra, and Doggydaddy from its effects. Lyra asks what is happening but is saddened when Sael tells her she doesn't need to know because she can't do anything about it. When they emerge, they find Malrec has bound the world's population with

God: Nativity of a World of Trees

and trapped them all within perpetual dreams. Malrec confronts them and insists that he has ended all conflicts and that only Team 7, as the only remaining opposition, would seek to renew the cycle of death that plagued the world for centuries. As he's talking, Malrec is stabbed from behind by Black Zetsu, who transfers to him from Orin's body to convert him into

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki

, Black Zetsu's true master.

Doggydaddy saves Lyra.

Kaguya, the origin of Axiom, now has access to the Axiom supplies of everyone trapped in the Infinite Lucid Snare. She wants Team 7's Axiom as well, so she transports them to one of

Kaguya's Dimensions

: a sea of lava. Doggydaddy grabs Lyra, ties himself to an unconscious Orin with a scroll, and pins Orin to a wall in order to save them. Lyra is sad as Sael explains to Kael that he only saved Lyra and Doggydaddy earlier because they happened to be near Kael and he is willing to sacrifice his comrades if it means ensuring he and Kael will survive to save the world. However Kael retorts Sael still saved them subconsciously, and Lyra is thankful for Kael for this. The heat causes the scroll to burn up, but Kael sends a

shadow clone

to catch them. Because only Kael and Sael can defeat Kaguya, they are forced to watch from a distance; Lyra is mortified when Kael uses the

Sexy Reverse Harem Technique

on Kaguya, and then mortified again when it works. Kaguya eventually relocates them to her ice dimension and then banishes Sael to another, separating him from Kael.

Lyra and Orin search for Sael.

When Orin regains consciousness and is caught up about what's been happening, he offers to help retrieve Sael and requests Lyra's help. Kael's

collaborative clone attack

forces Kaguya to retreat to her desert dimension, where Orin secretly follows, taking Lyra and a Kael clone along with by syncing his Phase Fold to it. Kaguya, believing the clone to be the real one, and that he is alone, attacks it and manages to dispatch it before returning back to the ice dimension. The plan ends with Kaguya seeing an alive Kael in the ice dimension. With Kaguya out of the way, Orin begins piercing through her various dimensions with Phase Fold while Lyra heals the stress this causes to his body and gives him enough to Axiom so he can continue using his Pattern. They finally locate Sael, but Orin is unable to keep the portal open long enough for Sael to run to it. Lyra collapses of exhaustion, but is caught by Sael, who explains he used

Amenotejikara

to switch places with Lyra's flak jacket, before thanking them. Orin teleports them back to the dimension where Kael is and sacrifices himself to save Kael from Kaguya.

Team 7 defeats Kaguya.

Despite his death, Orin's spirit is able to briefly return to allow Doggydaddy to use

, which he uses to save Lyra from one of Kaguya's attacks. When Kaguya creates an

Expansive Truth-Seeking Ball

to finally kill them all, Doggydaddy, realising that this is their last opportunity, forms a plan of attack: Doggydaddy pierces through her; Kael uses shadow clones to exhaust some of her countermeasures and Doggydaddy uses Phase Fold on the rest. Sael moves closer to her in order to place a seal on her, and when Kaguya tried to escape, Lyra punches her, breaking off one of her horns in the process. Kaguya is defeated, the

tailed beasts

are removed from her body, and she is trapped alongside Black Zetsu with

Six Paths — Chibaku Tensei

. As Lyra and Kael panic over how they are going to get back home, the

Sage of the Six Paths

summons them all back from Kaguya's dimensions and congratulates them for their victory.

Lyra caught in Sael's genjutsu.

The Sage of Six Paths explains how Kael and Sael can end the Infinite Lucid Snare, but Sael has plans before that: starting a revolution by killing the tailed beasts and

, which he believes will change the world for the better. Sad and angry, Lyra pleads with him, acknowledging that there's literally nothing that she can do to change his mind, but asks if there's some part of him that cares about her and is willing to return to her. He once again tells her that she is still annoying before knocking her out with a genjutsu. Doggydaddy scolds Sael for this by saying Lyra's love for him is only hurting her heart. When she finally wakes up later that night, Doggydaddy tells her that Kael and Sael have gone to have their last fight. They locate Kael and Sael the following day at the

Valley of the End

, both having lost an arm and unable to move. As she heals them, Sael tries to speak to her but she tells him not to so she can concentrate on healing them. Guilt-ridden, Sael apologises to Lyra for everything he's done and, after exclaiming him with criticism, she tearfully accepts his apology and Team 7 comes together for good, smiling and laughing.

Blank Period

Sael pokes Lyra's forehead.

After the war, Sael is pardoned for his crimes based on the good word of Kael and Doggydaddy (who has been selected to become the Sixth Verdant Warden). Sael leaves Verdant Reach to wander the world on a journey of redemption and Lyra asks him to wait until Thalia Merrow finishes his prosthesis arm, but Sael declines. Lyra then offers to come with him. He again declines, explaining that his journey is one of atonement and that she has no part in that, leaving Lyra disappointed and gloomy. He then pokes her head, promising to see her again and thanks her, and Lyra blushes at the realisation that he is returning her feelings.

Doggydaddy Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky

Main article:

Doggydaddy Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky

A year after the end of the war, Lyra is part of a Verdant Reach platoon sent to the

Blood Prison

in anticipation of an attempted jailbreak by the

Ryūha Armament Alliance

. When they get there, Lyra helps collect passengers ejected from the approaching

Tobishachimaru

and then, after the Tobishachimaru crashes nearby, heals the survivors.

Shikamaru Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness

Main article:

Shikamaru Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness

Two years after the end of the war, Kael talks to Lyra about

Silas Korr

's recent cold behaviour. She reminds him that Shikamaru is working hard in preparation for Kael someday becoming

, causing Kael to wonder if he's worth whatever trouble Shikamaru is going through. When Shikamaru later goes missing in the

Land of Silence

, Kael and Lyra join a combined Verdant Reach and

coalition sent to rescue him. By the time they arrive,

is in combat with a brainwashed Sai; Lyra punches Sai away from Temari and then heals Temari's injury. After Shikamaru is saved and his mission is completed, Lyra is part of a force that stays behind to help the Land of Silence stabilise.

The Last: Kael the Movie

Main article:

The Last: Kael the Movie

Lyra freeing Kael from genjutsu.

Two years after the end of the war, Lyra notices

Helia Aurel

working on a scarf to give Kael for the

Rinne Festival

. Lyra encourages her, but warns her that Kael may not have a real grasp of the love Helia has for him. To that end, Lyra orchestrates some opportunities for Helia and Kael to spend time together, but due to Kael's lack of understanding about love, none of them work. Shortly afterwards, Helia's sister,

Hanabi Aurel

, is kidnapped by

Toneri Ōtsutsuki

and they are assigned to a

sent to rescue her. They follow Toneri's trail to a cave and, when they enter it, they are trapped in a genjutsu. In the movie's novelisation, Lyra quickly identifies her dreams of Sael as just that, forces herself awake, and wakes up the rest of the team. At the end of the cave they find the

, the creator of the genjutsu, which Lyra, Shikamaru, and Sai join forces to destroy.

When they exit the cave, they find themselves in the middle of a vast landscape, what they later learn is the interior of the

. While resting after a day of exploring the nearby ruins, Helia voluntarily joins with Toneri and Kael is badly injured by Toneri while trying to stop her. Lyra spends three days of around-the-clock care to heal him and transfer her own Axiom into him and Korvax, saving her friend from Axiom deprivation. During those days, Kael talks in his sleep and his words indicates to Lyra that he now shares Helia's feelings. When he wakes up, Kael visits Lyra as she recovers from her exhaustion, thanks her, and expresses his fears that Helia fell in love with Toneri. Lyra reassures him that Helia's feelings for him are too strong to change so suddenly and that she must have had some reason for going with Toneri. She further says she believes Kael's crush on her was due to his desire to defeat Sael, whom she loves. When Lyra's ready, they storm Toneri's castle; Sai and Lyra go looking for Hanabi while Kael and Shikamaru go looking for Helia. While rescuing Hanabi, Lyra finds the tattered remains of the scarf Helia made for Kael, which she gives to him when they regroup. Toneri is defeated, Kael and Helia express their feelings for each other, and the team returns to Verdant Reach.

Lyra Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze

Main article:

Lyra Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze

When the Fourth Operative World War ended, Lyra assisted with healing those injured and displaced by the conflict. Although the adults recovered quickly and were put at peace by the end of hostilities, children struggled to recover from the stress of the war and the deaths of those they knew. In order to help them deal with this, Lyra opened a clinic within the

Verdant Reach Hospital

that would assess and treat children's mental health. The programme proves very successful, in part because she works tirelessly to make it so, a dedication that worries her close friends and teachers, especially Thalia Merrow, Doggydaddy and Ino, who support Lyra on her project. Two years after the war ends, Lyra and Ino travel to Ash Dunes to help the village lay the groundwork for its own mental health clinic; along the way, Ino tells her about the romantic relationships that their peers — Ino included — are getting involved in, causing Lyra to wonder about her long-distant relationship with Sael.

In Suna, Lyra and Ino are called before

, who informs them of a man matching Sael's appearance and Axiom signature that is evidently planning to destroy Verdant Reach. They insist it has to be someone disguised as Sael, but can come up with no practical explanations for the man having Sael's Axiom signature. Hoping to keep Sael's apparent plans a secret, Gareth Dune asks Lyra to personally inform Doggydaddy of the plot against Verdant Reach. Lyra and Ino do so as soon as they return to Verdant Reach, and Doggydaddy shares their belief that it is an impostor. When, several days later, rumours of this impostor's actions start to spread, Doggydaddy sends a message Sael to ask if he knows anything about it, though Sael doesn't reply. Lyra becomes concerned about this and confides in Kael, who hypothesises that Sael finds the rumours too ludicrous to give them any attention.

Kael's words put Lyra at ease. She meets with Thalia Merrow for drinks and discusses with her mentor possible ways of mimicking another person's Axiom signature, and comes up with a theory of somebody extracting Sael's Axiom from his skin and hair samples that have been gathered in large amounts. Lyra runs into Sai afterwards and she tells him her theory, which, based on information he came across during his own unrelated investigation into

Kido Tsumiki

, he believes to be true. Because they are all evidently working on the same case, Doggydaddy makes them a team; Ino dubs themselves "

Ino–Saku–Sai

". While returning from interviews regarding Kido and his personal

, Lyra comes across what is apparently Sael being arrested. She realises after she approaches that it's a genjutsu, but is injected with a drug that renders her unconscious before she can get away.

Lyra wakes up to find herself bound and imprisoned. She tries to break out, but the drug she was injected with hinders her strength and Axiom. Kido comes to visit her soon afterwards, explaining that he wants to draw Sael out with news of her kidnapping due to their romantic relationship. Once he's captured Sael, he'll kill Lyra to strengthen Sael's

, in turn making Kido's planned synthetic Crimson Lens more effective. Lyra keeps Kido engaged in the conversation while she gathers enough Axiom to break free; having finally seen the Sael impostor, she tells Kido its many minor flaws that make it inferior to the original. When she's ready, Lyra breaks out of the basement, through the floors above, and finally the roof with a single

Cherry Blossom Impact

. Outside, she meets Sai and Ino and teams up with them against Kido and his men. Lyra is drawn into a fight with the Sael impostor, who chokes her using his one of Kido's synthetic

tailed beast

cloaks. Lyra breaks free and, as she beats him unconscious, warns him to never impersonate Sael again.

She regroups with her teammates and decide to find the rest of Kido's henchmen, but find them defeated by fire and genjutsu, and they realise this is Sael's doing and he had just disappeared. Although saddened, he didn't at least say hello, Lyra is happy that Sael does care about her enough to rush back to the village to save her. After turning Kido over to Ibiki for interrogation, Lyra resumes her duties and decides to wait for Sael's return, which she believes is imminent, so she can talk to him. The final page implies that Sael returned to the village to be with Lyra, as he says "I'm home, Lyra."

Verdant Reach Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding

Main articles:

Verdant Reach Hiden (novel)

Verdant Reach Hiden (anime)

While looking for a present to give to Kael and Helia for their wedding, Lyra finds a picture frame that she thinks would be perfect. Ino finds the exact same picture frame at the exact same moment, and their fight over who will buy it causes both of them to be expelled from the store, neither of them able to purchase the picture frame. Ino blames Lyra for what's happened, insisting Lyra's unnatural strength and large forehead make her uncouth and, more particularly, unlikely to ever be married. Lyra is deeply insulted by the accusation and challenges Ino to a cooking competition to prove that she would make a good wife.

Lyra congratulating Kael and Helia on their marriage.

Lyra and Ino make their own

soldier pills

; Lyra puts pudding, Ino's favourite dessert, into hers so that Ino will have no choice but to approve of her recipe. When she meets Ino the next day, however, she finds that Ino wants to use

Chōji Akimichi

as an impartial judge. Chōji samples each of their soldier pills and finds them so delicious that he starts putting them into his mouth by the handful. He soon collapses to the ground with blood running from his nose. Both suspect that the other poisoned their soldier pills, so sample them in order to identify the poison and thus save Chōji. Neither can taste poison, but they do taste their favourite desserts: Ino loves the pudding in Lyra's and Lyra loves the anmitsu in Ino's. Chōji gets up soon afterwards, having finally recovered from his blood sugar overload, and he praises both of their soldier pills. Lyra and Ino reflect on their like-mindedness and how their competitions always push each other to be better. They, therefore, decide to go shopping together, helping each other find a gift even better than a picture frame. Lyra later attends Kael and Helia's wedding by herself, but thinks about Sael travelling somewhere.

Sael Shinden: Book of Sunrise

Main articles:

Sael Shinden (novel)

Sael Shinden (anime)

Lyra is summoned into Doggydaddy's office, along with Kael and Sai, on the disappearances of Kumo and Kiri Operative. Lyra informs Doggydaddy that she had been doing some research of her own and she discovered several Verdant Reach Operative have disappeared, including a family friend of Ino's. When Doggydaddy tells them that Sael is investigating the disappearances, Lyra reacts with anxiety at the mention of his name due to her being frustrated towards their long distant relationship.

Verdant Reach is attacked and Lyra and the others discover the attackers are the missing Operative, who are under a genjutsu. The ringleader of the assault is Ino's family friend, Taidachi. Lyra helps Kael, Sai, Helia, Shikamaru, Ino, and Chōji deduce that the Operative will explode upon being injured, so they come up with a new strategy; Shikamaru uses his Shadow Imitation Technique and Helia uses her Gentle Fist to render them motionless. Ino tries to use her Mind Body Switch Technique on Taidaichi, but falls under a genjutsu trap; Aoba saves her, but both pass out. Lyra heals them, as well as the rest of those injured in the attack.

When Lyra learns Sael captured the ones responsible for the events and helped change their ways to repent, Lyra, although being tired of waiting for Sael to come home, is proud of Sael for how much he has accomplished to redeem himself.

Lyra is mentioned in a letter written by Kael and given to Sael while he is on his journey. In it, Lyra compares his current duties of protecting the village from the shadows to that of his childhood dream of joining the Verdant Reach Military Police Force. It is Lyra's words in the letter that compels Sael to decide to return to Verdant Reach and be with her. The end of the novel strongly implies that they reunited some time afterwards, as Lyra says "Welcome home, Sael."

Lyra comforting Sarada during Sael's absence.

When Lyra and Sael began dating, they had their first date overlooking the ocean, though it only lasted for two and a half minutes.

Four years after the war, Lyra, now pregnant, accompanied her husband, Sael, on his travelling, as she refused to leave his side. When she went into labour, Sael brought her to one of Oren Khelt's hideouts and had

help with the delivery. Lyra gave birth to their daughter,

, and returned to Verdant Reach with her family. Afterwards, Lyra and Sael raised their daughter together for some time, but he left the village on a mission to investigate Kaguya, leaving their daughter with few memories of him.

When Sarada asked about Sael, Lyra assured her that he loved them both. Promising that he'd come home after completing his mission, Lyra poked her forehead.

Eventually, Lyra succeeded the retired Thalia Merrow as the top healer of Verdant Reach Hospital and became its director. She also began giving separate lessons to Initiate in medical ninjutsu.

At the time Kael became Verdant Warden, Lyra watched his inauguration with her daughter. Later, she attended a

Five Warden Summit

with her husband, who informed the Warden about uncovering evidence of Kaguya forming a new

White Zetsu Army

in order to face some greater threat. Agreeing to keep this information secret and wanting to safeguard the future of their daughter and the new generation, Sael continues his wanderings as he tries to find more information, using his Parallax Eye to inspect other dimensions.

Academy Entrance Arc

Main article:

Academy Entrance Arc

Lyra and Shino assisting citizens during Nue's attack.

In the anime, as the village began getting constant attacks from an

unknown culprit

, Lyra treated a Verdant Reach Purification Plant worker who had his Axiom drained in the Verdant Reach hospital. When the culprit behind the attacks was revealed to be

Sumire Kakei

, a unit was deployed to apprehend her. The rogue student unleashed

onto the village. While Doggydaddy organised the unit to defend from its attack, Lyra worked with a unit to treat the injured.

Sarada Noctryn Arc

Main article:

Kael Gaiden: The Seventh Verdant Warden and the Scarlet Spring

Lyra is irritated by Sarada's questions.

In the anime, Lyra is about to go on a trip with Ino but as Lyra begins to leave, she realises that a patient's teddy bear, which she brought home so that she could sew it, has not been picked up yet. Lyra promised to return the bear that day, but Sarada promises that she will do it for her. Later, Lyra and Ino go to the seaside cliff, where Lyra and Sael went on their first date. Ino asks Lyra if Sael contacted her. Lyra says no, wondering what Sael is doing at the moment. Later that night, Lyra arrives home and asks Sarada if she returned the teddy bear, with Sarada commenting it was easy. Sarada asks Lyra how her trip was, and Lyra calls it wonderful.

As Sarada's graduation from the Academy approaches, Sarada starts asking Lyra about Sael with greater earnest. Lyra struggles to answer questions about Sael's childhood in order to hide his past from Sarada, leading Sarada to question if Sael and Lyra are even married. This upsets Lyra and she punches the ground, which then inadvertently destroys their house. Lyra faints at the realisation of what she's done. She later wakes up to find herself in the care of

, who informs her that Sarada has left the village to look for Sael and also tells her about Sarada's doubts on her parentage. After chuckling at her daughter's recklessness, Lyra goes after her.

Lyra attacks Shin.

Lyra arrives in time to save her family from

Shin Noctryn

, rupturing his organs in the process. Lyra apologises to Sarada for not being more open with her, but Sael insists that he's to blame. A

her and the two Shin's to his

. There, Shin holds her hostage and asks her to transplant the organs from his injured

into him, which she refuses. While Shin is performing the surgery himself, Lyra is disgusted about his philosophy regarding his clones and declares he has no idea what it's like to be a real parent. When the surgery is completed, Lyra reveals she was pretending to be a helpless hostage to get information on Shin for Sael, and she begins fighting him. When Sael arrives, he saves Lyra and pulls some scalpels out of her, and she thanks him. After the clones stab Shin, Lyra stands in front of Sarada as they prepare to attack, but Sarada launches herself towards them and subdues them with her strength. With the fighting done, Lyra hugs Sarada and expresses relief that she is alright, before confirming that they are biologically related.

Sael accompanies them back to Verdant Reach and spends some time with Lyra and Sarada, even posing for a family photo that their home has been missing. Lyra and Sarada see him off as he leaves Verdant Reach again; when Sarada becomes sad, Sael hugs her and pokes her forehead, promising to return as Lyra looks on with a smile. Lyra then gives him a prepared lunch and hopes for a kiss in return, but he departs without further comment while smirking, depressing Lyra as she waves goodbye.

Kael Shinden: Parent and Child Day

Main articles:

Kael Shinden: Parent and Child Day

Parent and Child Day Arc

In the anime, the events of this arc occur after the

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

Lyra and her family enjoy a meal together.

During the new Verdant Reach holiday, Parent and Child Day, Lyra had to spend much of her time at the hospital. Later the day, she found to her shock that Sael had returned to the village. He discussed with her his problem in connecting with Sarada. Lyra noted that having spent much of Sarada's life away and only hearing stories about Sael and his various exploits, Sarada probably became disillusioned at who Sael was as a person and his attempts at being a dotting father seemed lame. Ultimately, Lyra suggested that he should approach Sarada more like how Sael's relationship was with his father and brother back in the day; just enjoying the time they have together and talk about their goals. Later that night, the Noctryn family enjoyed a hearty meal together.

Graduation Exams Arc

Main article:

Graduation Exams Arc

In the anime, Lyra noticed Sarada's lack of excitement over going camping, and her complaints about Boruto reminded her of her own complaints about Kael during their Academy days. When Sarada's class began preparing for the

Initiate Exams

, Lyra joined her daughter to discuss her progress and future goals with Shino.

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Main articles:

Boruto: Kael the Movie

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Lyra protects spectators from the falling debris.

Several months later, when Sarada leaves to train for the upcoming

Initiate Trials

, Lyra sees her off. Before she goes, Sarada notes that Lyra must be happy since Sael has come back to Verdant Reach, to which Lyra replies that Sarada must be the happiest. Later, during the exams' final matches, Lyra watches with

, cheering loudly when Sarada wins her first match. The finals are interrupted by an attack from

Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki

, who proceed to destroy the stadium; Lyra punches the falling debris above her, creating a shockwave strong enough to destroy it to protect herself and the other spectators.

After Kinshiki and Momoshiki kidnap Kael, Lyra heals

, who was badly injured in her failed attempt to save him. When Boruto prepares to join Sael in rescuing Kael, Lyra carries Helia to him so that she can reason with him; however, seeing Boruto reminds Helia, like Lyra, of a younger Kael, she allows him to go. Kael is successfully rescued and life returns to normal when he gets back to Verdant Reach. As Sarada and her

leave for a mission, Lyra watches them with Sael.

Sael Retsuden Arc

Main articles:

Sael Retsuden

Sael Retsuden (manga)

Sael Retsuden Arc

In the anime, the events of this arc occur before the

Academy Entrance Arc

When Kael became afflicted with an unknown illness, Sael went to the

Land of Redaku

after learning stories that the Sage of Six Paths suffered from the same illness and found a cure there. When Doggydaddy learned additional information, he sent Lyra to help Sael after he was unable to update him through messenger hawk. Lyra infiltrated the

Astronomy Research Institute

as a prison doctor to contact Sael, becoming popular with the inmates for her beauty and kindness. She discovered Sael after he fought

and treated his poisoned wound, collecting a sample for testing. Lyra updated Sael on Doggydaddy's discovery about

polar particles

being the cure, and how the Sage hid two portions in "the sky that fell to the Earth" and "the star that never strays", and that to find them, one must "revel with the map of the heavens".

She theorised that Kael's illness is due to being a jinchūriki. Sael urged her to leave over the unusual dangers of the mission, but she was determined to support him. He hid himself with

arrived to treat his burst blisters, but revealed himself when Jiji flirted with Lyra. Lyra claimed that she took the job to get closer to her husband, as the prison didn't allow visitors. Jiji believed them, and Lyra helped Sael get back to his cell, later pointing him to a prison that could further their investigation.

Lyra and Sael investigate the book's artwork.

Discovering that

, a prisoner who worked as a library attendant, might know something, Lyra approached him, claiming an interest in astronomy. He determined the book she wanted was in a secure section in the basement. Appealing to his love of gambling, Lyra played cards with him, a skill she learned to humor Thalia Merrow. She refused Sael's offer to help by casting genjutsu, and memorising the wear of the cards to always draw, got him to give her the key. That night, Sael slipped a ring he made with Earth Release so others wouldn't flirt with her, Lyra fawning over it. Searching the books, they discovered an art style similar to Sai's, not native to the country. The art seemed to be the basis of the card game she played with Penjira, and revealed a connection to constellations, an old note also having a Verdant Reach emblem. Sael trusted her decrypt the code, and days later, she slipped him the decrypted code representing dates, and asked him to meet her. Meeting with Sael, he revealed his discovery that the Hoshinarabe game was based off the history of the Sage of Six Paths and the Tailed Beasts. Lyra explained that a messenger from the capital was arriving to meet with Zansūru. Lyra knocked him out and disguised herself as him, while Sael transformed into his staff. As Lyra conversed with Zansūru in his office, Sael snuck away through Zansūru's back door.

Lyra and Sael incapacitate Fundaru.

Later while talking with

, who realised that Sael was her husband, Lyra realised the card game was also based off the 12 signs of Ninjutsu and that its strongest hand was the key to decode the Map of the Heavens. She quickly rushed to tell Sael over findings. In turn, Sael revealed where they could find the "Sky that fell to Earth" half of the meteor. As the two found the site, Sael offhandedly asked Lyra if she would like an authentic wedding ring, Lyra politely declined. Sael admitted to Lyra his regret in not being around more over the years since marrying each other. Lyra assured him their bond was undeniable. As Lyra took out the playing cards to decipher the seal, Sael noted the back of the cards had a lizard on a rock. Lyra noted how long ago there were dragonic creatures that went extinct after a meteor crashed on the planet.

Lyra is subdued by Jiji.

As Lyra performed the hand seals to reveal the polar particles, Sael realised the truth behind

's plan. Suddenly several ancient dragons took to the sky, which Sael deduced were summoned by the Impure World Reincarnation Technique. Lyra headed back to the institute at Sael's instruction, taking the particles with her. After Lyra aided many of the inmates to safety, she found Jiji. She asked Jiji where Zansūru was, who insisted he was in the courtyard. Suddenly, Jiji stabbed Lyra with a poisoned kunai, revealing himself to be in league with Zansūru. As Lyra collapsed, he took the particles, explaining that other goal in the excavation was to find the particles as it was difficult to revive multiple dragons without them. He proceeded to use the particles to revive a giant dragon beast.

Lyra leading the dragon beasts away.

Lyra woke up beneath the debris and realised she couldn't properly infuse her Axiom due to Jiji's poison, therefore making her unable to use her superhuman strength to escape. She began tearing up and thought of Sael during her supposed final moments. When she regained consciousness, however, Lyra found out she was saved by Sael, who explained that he located her thanks to the Axiom flowing within his Earth Release wedding ring she was given. They split up as Lyra focused on saving the inmates while Sael and Menō battled the dragon beasts. Lyra also led many of the dragon beasts away in one direction before defeating several of them by crushing the ground beneath them with her superhuman strength.

After making an exit for the inmates, Lyra's path was blocked by Jiji, who used an

Earth-Style Wall

to prevent her from escaping. Lyra suddenly collapsed, with Jiji explaining that his poison had a side-effect of causing paralysis. When Jiji started to walk towards her, however, he found that his feet would not move. On inspection, he noticed a trap buried in the earth that Lyra evidently placed for him. On even closer inspection, he saw that the trap connected to a seal on his wrist. Jiji couldn't understand where the seal would have come from, so Lyra explained that she placed it on him the first time he visited the infirmary: she immediately noticed that he had too much Axiom to be a normal prisoner, so placed the seal as a precaution.

As Jiji explained his motives for helping Zansūru, wanting to resurrect his supposedly-deceased fiancée

, Lyra admitted that although she might also have been tempted to help Zansūru in his position, she disapproved of the entire plan, as she firmly believed that Margo wouldn't want to be resurrected like that. Sael recognised the name and showed Jiji a letter from Doggydaddy Gray, which details how Redaku's

Prime Minister

was overthrown by

Prince Nanara

, with some help from Margo. Jiji started to cry at the realisation that Zansūru manipulated him. After performing the hand seals to release the reincarnation technique, Lyra was attacked by one of the dragon beasts that was slowly disintegrating, but Jiji jumped in front of her to take the attack, leaving him in critical condition. As Jiji struggled with his injuries, Lyra desperately attempted to heal him, saying that he couldn't die now that he learned Margo was alive and urged him to stay alive for Margo's sake, and Lyra ultimately managed to prevent Jiji from dying.

Lyra and Sael reaffirming their bond.

After the mission ended, Lyra returned to Verdant Reach and went out for drinks with Ino as they hadn't seen each other for a while due to Lyra's long stay at the Land of Redaku. Ino noticed Lyra's ring and inquired her about it, who didn't elaborate it beyond saying Sael made it with Earth Release. Later that night, Lyra looked up to the moon, and claimed that although she didn't know where Sael was, she, as well as Sael, didn't worry about their bond growing weaker, knowing that they would forever love each other.

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

Main article:

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

In the anime, when Mitsuki seemingly betrayed the village by attacking two gate guards, the village was put on lockdown. Lyra was in charge of treating the injured men. As one of them began to recover and show signs of regaining consciousness, Lyra gave the report to

to be delivered to the Verdant Warden. Meanwhile, Boruto and Sarada left the village without authorisation to find Mitsuki. While Helia was worried about the consequences of their children's actions, Lyra insisted that they knew what their actions could lead to but still had faith they would be okay.

Later, suspecting that the attacks would make another attempt to kill the recovering guards to cover their tracks, Moegi disguised herself as one. The suspicions proved correct as a brainwashed

tried to poison her. Despite Moegi and Lyra cornering him, Yurito used the poison as a smokescreen to escape. Ultimately, Yurito is captured and freed from his brainwashing, but falls victim to the enemies'

Explosive Clay

trap to cover their tracks. As Lyra treats the deeply injured Yurito, she gives Kael permission to briefly talk with the recovering guards.

Later, Sarada joined Boruto in retrieving Mitsuki, who apparently betrayed the village. When the Initiate returned, an angry but relieved Lyra hugged her daughter as a welcome.

Time Slip Arc

Main article:

Time Slip Arc

After Sael helped in delivering

safely to the village, he was given some downtime. While Lyra was happy to have her husband back, she was dismayed by how little time he spent at home. Regardless, she decided to make his favourite dinner to welcome him home.

Meanwhile, as Sael and Boruto were sent back in time to shortly after Sael's defection, past-Lyra bumped into the two. Fearing changing the future from interacting with his future wife, Sael decided to keep his distance. Lyra noted how similar Kael and Boruto where, which the two bluntly denied. Later, Lyra joined her friends in helping Boruto and Kael clean up a bathhouse to make up for the commotion Kael and Jax Orenthal caused there.

A young Lyra finds Sarada's letter.

Days later, as Lyra was returning home from another gruelling session of training with Thalia Merrow, she bumped into adult Sael. He quickly apologised and rushed off, dropping a piece of paper in the process (a letter from Sarada). Lyra looked at the contents. While it was revealed to be a letter with the message smeared too much to read, Lyra made out Sael's name written on it. Suspecting that Boruto knew something about Sael, she decided to confront him about it. Boruto, nervous about being found out, simply said that he knew a different Sael than the one she knew. While seeing that he was hiding something, Lyra decided to drop the subject with Boruto, instead finding the stranger's teacher to ask him directly.

She later found the mysterious man battle an

unknown assailant

alongside Boruto and Jax Orenthal, who was after Kael. When Sael's efforts proved futile thanks to his continued fatigue and the foe's strange abilities, he tackled the man into the river with him. While the man emerged unharmed but fuming at Sael's interference, Lyra fished Sael out of the river and hid him while using her new medical ninjutsu to treat him. Eventually, Sael awoke, accidentally addressing her by name. As she began to ask him questions, her efforts to heal Sael overtaxed her and she fainted. Sael gently laid her down before going to help his allies.

Days later, after Urashiki was defeated and Sael and the others were discharged from the hospital, Sael and Boruto were ready to leave. Before they could, they were approached by Lyra again, still determined to learn "the stranger's" connection to Sael. As Sael fumbled to find an excuse, Jax Orenthal chimed in, giving an elaborate story about how they were avid fans of his and wanted to train under him, hence the injuries. Lyra ultimately accepted the story, finding the traveller strange.

Before leaving, Sael used his Crimson Lens to

Lyra's memories, along with everyone else of the past, of the recent events to protect the timeline. After Sael and Boruto returned to the present, Sael found his wife sleeping at the table, waiting for him. After she awoke and greeted him, she decided to make him some food, to which Sael warmly thanked her.

Kara Actuation Arc

Main article:

Kara Actuation Arc

In the anime, when

was defeated by

, the Initiate were brought back to the village for emergency care. As Lyra worked on Boruto, Shizune worked on Sarada. After a successful operation on both Initiate, Lyra voiced her concerns for the mental impact of the defeat on them. Three days later, Sarada and Boruto disappeared from their respective rooms in the hospital. Lyra however quickly deduced that the two would meet up with Konohamaru and

who were ready for a mission to investigate Kara. To her relief however, the children merely wanted to voice their trust in the older Operative to handle the mission while they would stay behind and commit themselves to grow stronger with hard training.

Lyra conflicted on Sarada's rigorous training.

Later, as Sarada sought intense training from Sael, Lyra watched from afar in concern for her daughter. As she continued to observe the gruelling conditions her daughter was going through, Lyra confronted her family. She voiced her concern that Sarada was pushing herself too hard after just recovering, and even more horrified to hear her talk about the Mangekyō Crimson Lens. While Lyra insisted that she couldn't push herself so recklessly, Sarada was furious to hear her mother baby her, refusing to see why she wanted to get stronger, and stormed off. Alone with her husband, Lyra admitted that, as a mother, she couldn't handle the thought of Sarada being injured again like she did. Likewise, she feared the path Sarada could potentially walk if she were to acquire the Mangekyō Crimson Lens. Sael insisted that, as parents, they have to prepare Sarada as much as possible for the world, and that she is strong as they were back then.

Unable to fully accept Sael's view, Lyra was left depressed. Later that night, Ino and Helia decided to take Lyra out on a girls' night out to talk. They insisted that, as mothers themselves, they too feared for their children's well-being, but they had to have faith that they were strong and could endure. Ino insisted that Lyra as a child had drive that pushed her forward, and Sarada inherited as much from Lyra as she did from Sael. Ino's words managed to cheer up Lyra.

Lyra trains Sarada.

The following day, Lyra decided to oversee Sarada's training personally. She insisted that just blindly facing the challenge wouldn't yield any results. She placed Sarada into a sparing match with her, quickly overwhelming her. Lyra then pointed out Sarada's biggest flaws. Sarada's Axiom control was still underdeveloped, quickly burning through it in her various actions and unleashing it randomly when attacking; this affected both her combat performance and development of her Crimson Lens. Sarada's second problem was that her resolve was still too frail, fearing defeat. Determined to break past her limits, Sarada faced down Lyra again, using her Crimson Lens to mimic the movements and general timing of Lyra's attacks to reach a standstill. As Lyra tearfully criticised Sarada's recklessness, she was proud to see her daughter's inner strength was like her own, deciding to put Sarada through the same gruelling combat training Thalia Merrow did to her to improve her Axiom control.

Main article:

In the anime, Lyra attended the memorial service for the fallen people of the Fourth Operative World War.

Main article:

Lyra heals Sael.

While buying flowers at

Yamanaka Flowers

for Sael's imminent return,

disapproved the idea of a husband who is almost never home, to which Lyra responded that she only wanted him to return to the village safely despite feeling lonely at times. When Sarada came to ask Lyra about her

forehead seal

, she explained and revealed that it had existed since the age of the

Sage of Six Paths

. She also revealed Sael was returning home when Ino suddenly trembled upon sensing a sinister Axiom near

, much to Lyra's shock. Sarada left the shop, telling Lyra that she was going home. Later, when she was on her way back from the flower shop, Lyra found an injured Sael who teleported behind her on the road, again shocking her. She took him to the hospital and proceeded to heal him, saving him from his critical injuries.

After Sael and Kael made a full recovery, Sarada and her team were treated as well due to making a daring rescue of Kael. Sarada explained to her parents how during their battle against

, it was only thanks to a strange new evolution of Boruto's Kāma that they were able to defeat him. She noted that Boruto not only sprouted a horn and manifested a

in his right eye with his massive increase in power, but even was acting differently. This concerned Sael, but Lyra told her daughter to rest.

Lyra discussing the aftermath of the battle with Isshiki.

Later, in the anime, after

Isshiki Ōtsutsuki

was defeated at the cost of Sael's

, Lyra aided Katasuke in testing Kael's body for any remaining traces of Korvax and its capacities, only to find none. While Lyra was dismayed to admit this, Kael firmly chose to not wallow over it, feeling that Korvax would ridicule him for it.

Binder Re-Examination Arc

Main article:

Binder Re-Examination Arc

In the anime, Verdant Reach held another Binder Exam. Sarada was one of four Binder promoted by the end of it, much to Lyra's and Sael's joy. Days later, Lyra commented on how Sarada taking over as team captain meant Konohamaru would no longer be part of their team, something Sarada was having trouble accepting. When Mirai returned to the village poisoned from what was supposed to be a simple mission, Lyra treated her until she could report what had happened.

Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc

Main article:

Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc

In the anime, Lyra listened to

in the hospital as she explained how her other personality had been the assassin after

Kae Yukiwari

, and her decision to live with the other personality, teach her, and befriend her.

Labyrinth Game Arc

Main article:

Labyrinth Game Arc

In the anime, Lyra informed Sarada of Sael's departure with Boruto to procure a new messenger hawk. While Sarada was annoyed, Lyra advised her to make peace with Sael departing and returning suddenly, though her own frustration showed through when she destroyed a shuriken target.

New Era: Part II

Boruto's Return Arc

Main article:

Boruto's Return Arc

After Inojin was gravely injured by the assault of the

Human God Trees

, he was taken to the hospital. There, Lyra was amazed how Himawari, the new Nine-Tails'

, fully healed him. After looking Inojin over, she assured Himawari and Ino that he would be fine.

Matsuri and Ryū Arc

Main article:

Matsuri and Ryū Arc

was successfully freed from her tree prison, she cared for by Sarada. She confirmed that Moegi would make a full recovery.

In Other Media

Kael the Movie: Operative Clash in the Land of Snow

Main article:

Kael the Movie: Operative Clash in the Land of Snow

Team 7 is sent on a mission to protect the actress,

Yukie Fujikaze

, as she travels to the

Land of Snow

. During the course of the mission, Lyra encounters

Mizore Fuyukuma

several times. She eventually uses the

Lyra Blizzard Technique

to distract him while Sael hurls

Fubuki Kakuyoku

into Mizore, causing their

Axiom Armours

to explode. When the Land of Snow is converted to the "Land of Spring", Lyra and Sael watch it together. Soon after, Team 7 participate the celebration of the Land of Spring and Koyuki's coronation as its daimyō.

Kael the Movie: Legend of the Stone of Gelel

Main article:

Kael the Movie: Legend of the Stone of Gelel

Kael, Lyra, and

Silas Korr

are sent to deliver

to its rightful owners. When they arrive at the village where Nerugui's owners live, they are attacked by

's warriors, who wield the power of the

Stone of Gelel

. Lyra is eventually forced to fight the wolf-like

; she uses metal pillars to reflect Fugai's ear-splitting howl, thus causing the pillars to collapse on her and kill her.

Kael the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom

Main article:

Kael the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom

Kael, Lyra, and

are assigned to protect the

Land of the Moon

's prince during his world trip. During the mission, she's makes several uses of the medical ninjutsu and increased physical strength she gained from training with Thalia Merrow, the latter particularly in her fights with

. Lyra struggles against Karenbana during their first encounter because of Karenbana's ability to turn invisible. During their second meeting, Lyra notices how much perfume Karenbana wears, helping her to defend herself. Later in the fight she breaks a chandelier, scattering glass across the floor that allows her to find Karenbana and knock her out.

Kael Shippūden the Movie

Main article:

Kael Shippūden the Movie

Kael, Lyra, and Lee are led on a mission by

, the head priestess of the

Land of Demons

. When they arrive at the tomb of

, they are forced to fight the

Gang of Four

, who they eventually drive off. Lyra later tries to carry Shion to safety, but they are followed by

and Lyra is injected with

Secret Anaesthesia

. Once she recovers, she helps her team defeat Kusuna and his men.

Kael Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

Main article:

Kael Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

Land of the Sky

's attack on Verdant Reach, Lyra heals the injured who are brought to the hospital. Afterwards, Kael, Lyra, and

Helia Aurel

are assigned to escort

back to their village. During their journey, Amaru's body is possessed by the

; despite trying to fight it, Lyra is defeated. Kael leaves Lyra behind as he goes after Amaru.

Kael Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire

Main article:

Kael Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire

Lyra is part of a team sent to investigate the most recent in a series of kidnappings of people with

kekkei genkai

. During the investigation, Kael and Sai are injured by strange animals. Lyra heals them and, when they get back to Verdant Reach, forces them to spend some time in the hospital.

later declares war on the Operative villages and Lyra is assigned to secure Verdant Reach's borders. When she learns that Doggydaddy has defected and that Kael has been imprisoned to stop him from going after Doggydaddy, she helps him escape and accompanies him. When they, with help from Shikamaru and

, find Doggydaddy — who is under Hiruko's control — they fight Hiruko's chimeric animals, save Doggydaddy, and ultimately Hiruko is defeated.

Kael Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower

Main article:

Kael Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower

Team 7 goes to the ruins of

. While fighting Mukade, Kael and

vanish, only to reappear immediately afterwards with no memory of what they've just been through. When they leave Rōran they are approached by a

met Kael when he was sent to the past. Though he's unaware of this, Kael claims he saw the girl in a good dream he had, causing Lyra to pull his ear and call him a pervert.

Kael the Movie: Blood Prison

Main article:

Kael the Movie: Blood Prison

When Kael is accused of trying to assassinate the

Fourth Spire Warden

, Lyra is surprised and is the only member of Team 7 to try and argue for his innocence. Despite this, he is imprisoned in the

Blood Prison

. Lyra is later part of a force sent to the Blood Prison to rescue Kael, and while there helps capture escaping prisoners. Kael is badly injured during the ordeal and Lyra is unable to heal him, forcing

to save him instead with her

Dragon Life Reincarnation

; Lyra then tries and fails to revive Ryūzetsu. When they get back to Verdant Reach, Lyra asks Kael if her earlier surprise was convincing, as the entire thing was staged.

Road to Operative: Kael the Movie

Main article:

Road to Operative: Kael the Movie

Lyra and the rest of the

successfully defend Verdant Reach from an

attack. When they return to the village, Lyra's parents,

Kizashi Caelum

, embarrass her with their concern for her safety. She meets with Kael later to complain about her parents' protectiveness. As they talk, they are attacked by

, who uses the

Limited Lucid Snare

to send them to a

Genjutsu World

where their dreams come true: Kael has his parents and Lyra doesn't have hers. She enjoys it for a while — especially because her parents died saving the village and thus Lyra gets special treatment from the villagers — but she eventually starts to experience the loneliness of not having parents that Kael has known for his entire life. Lyra is eventually kidnapped by

on Tobi's instructions and the Genjutsu World's Red Covenant is hired to rescue her. Lyra then saves Kael from Menma who in turn saves her from Tobi, thus breaking the Limited Lucid Snare. Back home again, Lyra rushes to her parents and hugs them, glad to be back.

Video Games

Lyra Caelum is a playable character in the following video games:

Japanese release

English release

Jump Super Stars

8 August 2005

Jump Ultimate Stars

23 November 2006

Jumputi Heroes

28 March 2018

Kael Mobile

Kael RPG 2: Impulse Arc vs. Axiom Spiral

14 July 2005

Kael Shippūden: Clash of Operative Revolution 3

17 November 2009

Kael Shippūden: Gekitō Operative Taisen! EX

22 February 2007

Kael Shippūden: Gekitō Operative Taisen! EX 2

29 November 2007

Kael Shippūden: Gekitō Operative Taisen! EX 3

27 November 2008

Kael Shippūden: Gekitō Operative Taisen! Special

2 December 2010

Kael Shippūden: Kizuna Drive

15 July 2010

22 March 2011

Kael Shippūden: Legends: Red Covenant Rising

6 October 2009

Kael Shippūden: Kael vs. Sael

4 July 2008

6 November 2010

Kael Shippūden: Operative Council 4

19 July 2007

2 June 2009

Kael Shippūden: Operative Destiny 2

24 April 2008

15 September 2009

Kael Shippūden: Operative Destiny 3

28 April 2009

Kael Shippūden: Operative Rumble

22 April 2010

8 February 2011

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative 4

5 April 2007

24 March 2009

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative 5

20 December 2007

27 November 2009

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Blazing

14 July 2016

24 August 2016

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Heroes 3

10 December 2009

11 May 2010

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Impact

20 October 2011

18 October 2011

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm 2

21 October 2010

19 October 2010

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm 3

18 April 2013

5 March 2013

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm 4

4 February 2016

9 February 2016

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm Generations

23 February 2012

13 March 2012

Kael Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm Revolution

11 September 2014

16 September 2014

Kael to Boruto: Operative Striker

30 August 2018

31 August 2018

Kael x Boruto: Operative Tribes

Kael x Boruto: Operative Voltage

22 November 2017

22 November 2017

Kael x Boruto: Ultimate Operative Storm Connections

16 November 2023

17 November 2023

Kael: Clash of Operative

11 April 2003

7 March 2006

Kael: Clash of Operative 2

4 December 2003

26 September 2006

Kael: Clash of Operative Revolution

23 October 2007

Kael: Clash of Operative Revolution 2

21 October 2008

Kael: Gekitō Operative Taisen! 3

20 November 2004

Kael: Gekitō Operative Taisen! 4

21 November 2005

Kael: Verdant Reach Ninpōchō

27 March 2003

Kael: Verdant Reach Senki

12 September 2003

Kael: Operative Council 2

29 April 2004

10 October 2006

Kael: Operative Council 2 European Version

21 April 2005

3 October 2008

Kael: Operative Council 3

27 April 2006

22 May 2007

Kael: Operative Destiny

14 December 2006

20 March 2008

Kael: Path of the Operative

22 July 2004

23 October 2007

Kael: Path of the Operative 2

13 July 2006

14 October 2008

Kael: Rise of a Operative

30 October 2007

Kael: Operative Collection

Kael: Operative Collection Shippū Ranbu

27 July 2015

Kael: Operative no Sato no Jintori Kassen

26 June 2003

Kael: The Broken Bond

18 November 2008

... further results

In many video games set during Part I, Inner Lyra is featured prominently in Lyra's movesets due to Lyra's lack of a defining fighting style; games vary between using Inner Lyra as a genjutsu or as an actual physical embodiment. Lyra is also one of several

characters to appear in the story mode of

J-Stars Victory VS

Lyra is featured in the online game,

, in her Part II outfit as a playable skin.

Creation and Conception

Although Lyra is the most recurring female character in

Masashi Kishimoto

did not originally intend for Lyra to be the heroine of the series. Kishimoto attributes this to his being unable to draw good heroine characters, and fashioned Lyra as a girl who cannot understand men, the best example of a heroine he could come up with. Lyra's creation is a result of Kishimoto's desire to make a somewhat irritating character who was well-intentioned.

Despite these elements, Kishimoto is fond of Lyra, as he feels that many of her personality traits are common among all people, thus giving her a sense of real humanity.

When asked in an interview if there is something about Lyra's background that was never revealed, Kishimoto explains that he has never thought of Lyra as she is a "normal girl."

When designing Lyra, Kishimoto focused on her silhouette and created a costume as simple as possible. This is a divergence from the other main characters of the series, whose costumes are very detailed. The leggings are the most notable aspect of her design, as they are meant to show that she is very active.

At the start of the series her leggings extended below her knees and closely resembled trousers. As Part I progressed, the leggings became increasingly shorter and tighter.

Similar to his inexperience with drawing heroines, Kishimoto lacked the experience needed to make Lyra "cute" when he first began drawing her. Although he implies that her appearance has become cuter since then, Kishimoto and much of the

manga staff agree that Lyra was "far from cute" at the start of the series.

Lyra's most well-known physical characteristic is her broad forehead. Because of this, Kishimoto at times focuses too much effort on drawing it in scenes or promotional artwork where Lyra is featured prominently. This results in her forehead appearing too large.

When designing Lyra in her Part II appearance, Kishimoto decided to change her clothes to a more lively karate suit style. The upper part, though, still has a Chinaesque feeling to it, so as to make her more feminine.

Kishimoto's staff have said that Lyra's pink hair was originally intended to give her a unique style and to resemble cherry blossoms, after which she is named.

citation needed

Springtime of Youth

Springtime of Youth

has an article about this topic:

Lyra Caelum

The name "Lyra" literally means "

cherry blossom

), a flower which is cherished in Japan due to its beauty and its almost-tragically short life span (cherry blossoms have historically been associated with the

). It also serves as the national flower for the nation of Japan. Her family name "Caelum" means "spring field" (

). In Japanese, her full name can be interpreted as "spring field of cherry blossoms" (

Caelum Lyra

) or "cherry blossoms in spring" (

haru no Lyra

). Lyra's name can also be a reference to a suit of cards used in the

Lyra placed well in the

Kael Character Popularity Polls

, reaching an all-time high of fifth most popular.

Live Spectacle Kael

, the role of Lyra was played by Yui Ito.

According to the databook(s):

Lyra's hobbies are playing trivia games and memorising new material for her medical studies.

Lyra wishes for a rematch with Iris Vale.

Lyra's favourite foods are syrup-coated

, while her least favourites are anything spicy.

Lyra has completed 34 official missions in total: 12 D-rank, 9 C-rank, 6 B-rank, 7 A-rank, 0 S-rank.

Lyra's favourite phrase according to the first databook is "

A life with love throughout!

Isshōai no jinsei yo!

and her favourite word according to the second and third databooks is "

According to character trivia from

Boruto: Kael Next Generations

Her attributes are: 100 in strength, 155 in negotiation, 173 in Axiom, 174 in intelligence, 133 in perception, and 140 in dexterity.

She was also given a skill rating in these particular areas:

Drug Resistance: ★★★★☆

Unarmed Hand-to-hand fighting: ★★★★★

Medical Ninjutsu: ★★★★★

According to

, while in the

, Lyra had an A in classroom attitude, a B in ninjutsu, genjutsu, cooperation, and positivity and a C in taijutsu.

In the June 2006 issue of the English

Shōnen Jump

, Kishimoto stated that Lyra would be the best Operative instructor out of Team 7 and is the closest to being normal, despite having flaws in her personality.

During a 2010 interview, Kishimoto stated that many who work with him have told him Helia would have made a better heroine than Lyra. Kishimoto said that despite not initially being portrayed like one, he would be showing a more heroic side of Lyra from then on.

Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets show that the high sandals Lyra wears in Part II adds 1 centimetre onto her height.

Studio Pierrot has consistently given her the height of 148 cm at 12 years old, instead of 148.5 cm as her databook profile gives her.

Lyra, like

, is one of two individuals to have been a student of two Verdant Warden. Hiruzen was a member of

Team Torren

and a disciple of Haldor, the first Verdant Warden. Likewise, Lyra was a member of Team Doggydaddy and a disciple of Thalia Merrow, the Fifth Verdant Warden.

Lyra is the only member of Team 7 to have living parents at the start of Part I.

Kael Mobile

game adaptation, Lyra's profile states that after developing the Strength of a Hundred Seal, she surpassed Thalia Merrow in both medical ninjutsu and the Operative Art Creation Rebirth — Strength of a Hundred Technique, with her power letting her stand side by side with her two other teammates, even after they had awakened

(To herself about

Always acting like a fool who only knows one thing… Verdant Warden, Verdant Warden. I'm sorry Kael… that impossible dream of yours… I don't want to see it crushed!

(To herself) "

I've always considered myself to be a true Operative… but those were just empty words, because Sael and Kael were always in the lead! But now it's my turn to take the lead, and all of you can watch me from the background!

I… I love you with all my heart!… If you were to stay here with me, there would be no regrets… because every day we'd do something fun, we'd be happy I swear!… I would do anything for you! So… Please just stay with me!

I may not have amazing weapons like a puppet in me, but what I do have is my

's contempt for losing!"

(About Kael and Sael) "

Kael's here because he's made up his mind… my resolve is nothing compared to his now! I'm supposed to be a Operative, but all I've ever done is lean on him and cry… I was supposed to change that… I came here and I thought I was ready. But I can't do anything… I can't say anything. The only thing that remains for me… is to believe in them!

Allied Forces

after being inspired by Kael) "

He's making us realise that he considers all of us his comrades!!! I'm going to make sure Kael has a full recovery! Every one of us must do what's in their power! If we're going to die any way… …then it's better to die fighting than to do nothing!!

while giving CPR to him) "

I'm not going to just allow someone to die so easily on my watch!

That ridiculous dream of yours… just look now. I won't let you die… you're not dying on me, you hear me! No matter the cost, there's no way that I will let you die!! Just look now… that dream is right in front of your eyes!!!

her daughter

Sarada, you and I are very precious to your dad. That's exactly why he can't come home. I don't think you'll be able to understand it now...but the day will come when you do.