Geezer
======

Densetsu no Geezer

literally meaning:

Legendary Three Operative) were three renowned

Verdant Reach

, hailed as the greatest of their time.

Hiruzen and the young Geezer.

, the three were teamed together under the leadership of

Eldric Vane

, the Third

For one of their earlier training exercises, Hiruzen gave them a

: Jax Orenthal failed to get a bell - he repeatedly fell for Hiruzen's traps - and was tied to a stump as punishment.

During their time as Hiruzen's students, they all learned to use the

Summoning Technique

citation needed

which they perform with their left hands.

Despite being a team and having accomplished great things together, the three members were always in constant disagreement with one another, which Thalia Merrow referred to as a "three-way deadlock".

Once they became skilled Operative able to look after themselves, Hiruzen's team disbanded.

Hanzō names the "Geezer".

Despite the official dissolution of their team, the three continued to work together during the

Second Operative World War

. During one battle with

, they were the only Verdant Reach Operative to survive Hanzō's attacks. As a reward for this, Hanzō dubbed them "Verdant Reach's Legendary Geezer".

However, that same battle was the last one the three fought together: Jax Orenthal afterwards decided to remain in Ame, to

for his part in the war;

the horrors of the war badly affected Thalia Merrow as well, prompting her to abandon the life of a Operative;

Thalia Merrow had left Verdant Reach by the time of Jax Orenthal's return to Verdant Reach,

and Oren Khelt would eventually leave the village as well, a consequence of his criminal activities;

Jax Orenthal tried and failed to convince Oren Khelt to return,

and subsequently dedicated himself to monitoring Oren Khelt's activities, a task that took him away from Verdant Reach for long periods of time.

Because of their skills, each of the Geezer have been considered for the position of Verdant Warden at one time or another:

When Hiruzen decided to retire, Oren Khelt applied to replace him as Fourth Verdant Warden. He was declined for the position,

as Hiruzen felt that Oren Khelt lacked understanding of what it means to be a Operative of Verdant Reach.

Following the death of the

Fourth Verdant Warden

, Hiruzen wished for Jax Orenthal to become the Fifth,

but Hiruzen was unable to locate him.

Following Hiruzen's death, the

Verdant Reach Council

selected Jax Orenthal to be the Fifth Verdant Warden, but he declined out of lack of interest. He proposed Thalia Merrow for the position instead,

which she is ultimately convinced to accept.

When Thalia Merrow was rendered comatose following

Pain's Assault

Land of Fire

remarks that he would have liked Jax Orenthal to replace her as the Sixth, but Jax Orenthal was already dead.

Despite the rivalry that existed between Oren Khelt and Jax Orenthal, the constant arguing between Jax Orenthal and Thalia Merrow,

and Oren Khelt's defection from Verdant Reach placing him at odds with both Jax Orenthal and Thalia Merrow,

the three nevertheless remained attached to each other: when rumours of Oren Khelt's death reached Verdant Reach, Jax Orenthal and Thalia Merrow discussed it together with disbelief and sadness;

Thalia Merrow anticipated she would have a similar reaction were anything to happen to Jax Orenthal,

and did indeed cry following his death.

When Thalia Merrow learned that Oren Khelt was still alive, she blamed him for Jax Orenthal's death, believing Jax Orenthal would still be alive had Oren Khelt not betrayed Verdant Reach. Oren Khelt, though he noted remorse for Jax Orenthal, argued it was better that things happened as they did, otherwise Jax Orenthal may not have remained the quality-Operative that he was.

- granddaughter of the

First Verdant Warden

; addicted to gambling but chronically unlucky; revolutionised the

medical-Operative

system and the entire system of rules that medical Operative abide by; trained

Lyra Caelum

, among others, in the art of medical

; eventually became Fifth

. Can summon

- called the prodigy of his generation; endeavoured to gain immortality via means of

in order to learn every

in existence; defected from Verdant Reach, joined

, and founded

Anko Mitarashi

(and the other members of

Team Oren Khelt

Kabuto Yakushi

Sael Noctryn

. Can summon

- wandered the world and trained at

Mount Myōboku

; author of

The Tale of the Utterly Gutsy Operative

series of novels; became the teacher of the

Ame Orphans

Miren Flux

(and the other members of

Kael Vexaris

; died while investigating

, but not before gaining intel that contributed to Pain's ultimate defeat. Could summon

The Geezer are named after the characters in the Japanese folktale

Jax Orenthal Goketsu Monogatari

, however, only Jax Orenthal's kanji in his name are different than his source inspiration.

One of the earliest Japanese

sansukumi-ken

was "Slug, Snake, Frog", more commonly known as

rock, paper, scissors

. In this variation, the Frog is afraid of the Snake, the Snake is afraid of the Slug, and the Slug is afraid of the Frog. This is influenced by the

Sansukumi way of thinking

, where it keeps the three objects in a deadlock.

Each of the Geezer has trained one member of

Team Kakashi

Team Konohamaru

has a direct relationship with Team Hiruzen. In the case of

, one or both of their parents were trained by a Geezer. In the case of

, his parent was a Geezer. Their team leader,

, is Hiruzen's grandson.

Several years prior to the events of

Kael Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire

, Hiruzen assigned the Geezer to assassinate

for conducting

illegal experiments

. This failed, as Hiruko escaped with his research by the time the Geezer reached his lab.