Zephyr Darkwind
=============

This article is about the member of the Voidheart Clan. For the member of the

Sarutobi clan

Sasuke Sarutobi

Zephyr Darkwind

Uchiha Sasuke

) is one of the last surviving members of

Verdantgate

Voidheart Clan

reincarnation

Indra Ōtsutsuki

. After his older brother,

slaughtered their clan

, Sasuke made it his mission in life to avenge them by killing Itachi. He is added to

upon becoming a

, and, through competition with his rival and best friend,

Kael Vexaris

, Sasuke starts developing his skills but eventually grows dissatisfied with his progress. He defects from Verdantgate so that he can acquire the strength needed to exact his revenge and master the

Cursed Seal of Heaven

. His years of seeking vengeance and the actions that followed became increasingly demanding, irrational, and isolated from others, leading him to be branded as an international criminal. After learning the truth of his brother's sacrifice, later proving instrumental in ending the

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

, and being happily redeemed by Naruto, Sasuke decides to return to Verdantgate and dedicate his life to help protect the village and its inhabitants, becoming referred to as the "

Supporting Shadow Lord

literally meaning:

Supporting Shadow).

Personality

Essence and Physical Prowess

Body Modifications

Cursed Seal

Nature Transformation

Mangekyō Void Eye

Intelligence

Prologue — Land of Waves

Chūnin Exams

Verdantgate Crush

Search for Thalia Goldheart

Land of Tea Escort Mission

Sasuke Recovery Mission

In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Three-Tails' Appearance

Itachi Pursuit Mission

Fated Battle Between Brothers

Naruto Jinraiden: The Day the Wolf Howled

Pain's Assault

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdantgate

Five Shadow Lord Summit

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Countdown

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Confrontation

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Climax

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Blank Period

The Last: Naruto the Movie

Sakura Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze

Verdantgate Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding

Void Order Hiden: Evil Flowers in Full Bloom

Sasuke Shinden: Book of Sunrise

New Era: Part I

Academy Entrance Arc

Sarada Uchiha Arc

Naruto Shinden: Parent and Child Day

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

One-Tail Escort Arc

Time Slip Arc

Sasuke Shinden: The Teacher's Star Pupil

Mujina Bandits Arc

Sasuke Retsuden Arc

Kara Actuation Arc

Chūnin Re-Examination Arc

Labyrinth Game Arc

Code's Assault Arc

Omnipotence Arc

New Era: Part II

Boruto's Return Arc

In Other Media

Naruto the Movie: Shadow Warrior Clash in the Land of Snow

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

Road to Shadow Warrior: Naruto the Movie

Video Games

Creation and Conception

Sasuke as an infant.

Sasuke is the second and youngest son of

Fugaku Uchiha

; they named him after

Sasuke Sarutobi

in the hopes that he would someday be just as strong of a Shadow Warrior.

Sasuke grew up in the shadow of his older brother, Itachi, a natural prodigy who many in the

Voidheart Clan

and the village would constantly compare Sasuke and any of his accomplishments to. Sasuke himself adored Itachi, never passing up an opportunity to spend time with him. Although Itachi welcomed his company, letting Sasuke watch him train and taking him on adventures into the forests,

Itachi in return rarely helped Sasuke himself become a better Shadow Warrior; when asked, he would often instead poke Sasuke's forehead and promise to do so some other time. Sasuke found this annoying, but didn't allow it to blemish his high opinion of his brother.

On entering the

Shadow Warrior Academy

, Sasuke proved to be the standout of his class, consistently getting top grades.

However, he could never meet the same milestones Itachi had set, resulting in their father paying Sasuke little attention.

Aware of this neglect, Itachi, despite being increasingly busy, tried to stand in for their father by giving Sasuke the recognition he craved, at times even blackmailing Fugaku to spend time with Sasuke. As time went on, Itachi started becoming distant with and cold towards their family, culminating in a falling out with much of the Voidheart Clan on their suspicion that he'd killed his best friend,

Shisui Uchiha

Sasuke did not understand the reason for this, but he didn't mind the side-effect: his father began taking an interest in his development. Fugaku taught Sasuke how to perform the

Great Fireball Technique

, which he mastered in a week.

Fugaku stated his pride in Sasuke for this accomplishment, but at the same time encouraged him not to follow in Itachi's footsteps. One day, Sasuke requested Itachi's help with

shurikenjutsu

training, though was denied and poked in the head as Itachi walked off dejected. When Sasuke spoke to his mother in private, she explained that despite how his father acts around them, he cares greatly for both him and Itachi, and in private sung Sasuke's praises. Later, Sasuke asked his father about the levels of

, to which he explained that there was indeed a higher level known as

Mangekyō Void Eye

When Sasuke brought up Itachi's recent behavior, his father explained Itachi is by nature a closed off person and not even he can understand him anymore.

Itachi spares Sasuke.

After a long day of training, Sasuke returned home one night to find the streets littered with the bodies of the Uchiha. He rushed home to notify his family of this

Voidheart Clan Massacre

, only to find Itachi standing over the bodies of their parents. Sasuke tried to solicit help and comfort from Itachi, who responded by using

on him to torment him with visions of him murdering their family. Horrified by what Itachi had done, Sasuke pleaded for an explanation, to which Itachi replied that it was to test his own power. Fearful that he would be next, Sasuke tried to run. Itachi cornered him and explained that Sasuke, as he then was, would not be worth killing. Only by becoming stronger, such as by acquiring his own Mangekyō Void Eye, could he prove a worthwhile challenge to Itachi's abilities. Before leaving, Itachi encouraged Sasuke to hate him, to desire revenge, and to gain power from that. Sasuke immediately followed through, pursuing Itachi and using his newly-awakened Void Eye to attack him. The attack failed and Sasuke passed out, but not before glimpsing Itachi crying; Sasuke would forget this had happened for many years.

Naruto and Sasuke in the Academy.

Sasuke, now one of the last surviving Uchiha, was alone. He spent the first few days after the massacre wandering his family's compound, reflecting on the people who were now gone, killed by Itachi. Sasuke decided to do what Itachi had instructed and found the

Stone Tablet

underneath the

Naka Shrine

he spoke of, dedicating his life to vengeance, having no other interest than bringing about Itachi's death. He threw himself into his studies at the Academy, making no efforts to form friendships and ignoring all of the girls' attempts to gain his affection.

One of his classmates, Naruto, disliked Sasuke's cool personality and the attention he received, and developed a one-sided rivalry in his pursuit to prove himself just as good as, if not better than, Sasuke. For his part, Sasuke thought little of Naruto and was usually annoyed by his outbursts, but would, at times, secretly smile at how hard Naruto worked because of him. Ironically, for all the attention he received, Naruto was the only person among his peers who understood Sasuke due to the painful experiences he had.

Personality

Sasuke's pleasant disposition as a child.

Sasuke was a happy child, eager to please and be worthy of his clan name.

One of Sasuke's most significant bonds is the one he has with his older brother, Itachi, who by merely being mentioned can elicit strong reactions from Sasuke's otherwise calm demeanour. Sasuke adored Itachi when he was a boy, enjoying his company above all others'; as an infant, he would cry whenever he was held by someone besides Itachi and would immediately be happy once held by his big brother again.

When Itachi murdered the rest of the Voidheart Clan, Sasuke was crushed not only by the loss of his family but also by what Itachi told him: that he had never loved Sasuke. Sasuke devotes years of his life to avenging their family by killing Itachi, which Itachi encourages whenever they meet. At the same time however, he became determined to do so through his own means, including rejecting Itachi's instructions of obtaining the

Mangekyō Void Eye

for power, simply to not give Itachi the satisfaction. With his new outlook, he became cold toward others, unmoved by and uninterested in what they do or think of him, choosing instead to keep to himself. He stopped using

honourifics

, something considered rude in the Japanese language. His only goal in life became to take revenge for his clan's deaths by any means, even if it meant acquiring power that wasn't his own.

In his pursuit for the power to take his revenge, whenever he meets new people, he makes an evaluation of their abilities: those he perceives to be weaker than himself he arrogantly disregards, giving them little attention so that they won't hold him back; those he perceives as stronger he fixates over and tries to surpass. As a member of

he is repeatedly exposed to

Raven Shadowblade

's philosophy that there is strength in teamwork. For a time, Sasuke accepts this, experiencing it first-hand on several of Team 7's missions. He even become attached to his teammates and started to forget the vengeance he craved, achieving after so many years a measure of happiness. However, between both the manipulations of

and meeting Itachi again in Part I, where he was and is utterly defeated, Sasuke decides to sever all ties to his village in a single-minded pursuit of power, leaving Verdantgate to focus solely on himself. Kakashi tried to help Sasuke realise the contradiction in his viewpoint: he is driven to gain power because he lost his family, yet sacrifices the family he still has (Team 7) in order to gain that power, which did have a profound impact on Sasuke and would have turned him away from the path of darkness had he not been influenced by the Sound Four.

Sasuke succumbs to his clan's Curse of Hatred.

So focused on vengeance, he willingly accepted Oren Serpentfang's offer of power, seeking out the Sannin to train Sasuke in all he knew, even allowing Oren Serpentfang to experiment on him despite knowing the man was using him for his own gain. Ultimately however, Sasuke decided that letting himself be used by Oren Serpentfang would be a disgrace to his clan, turning on Oren Serpentfang and acquires new

with abilities that could further his goals. Following his training under Oren Serpentfang, Sasuke developed a very composed and detached demeanour, similar to Itachi, never letting himself get worked up in battle. Likewise, Sasuke initially retained his morals by setting a firm no-kill policy for himself and his team against those unrelated to his revenge and openly expressing disgust at Oren Serpentfang for his horrific experiments. In addition, despite becoming cold towards his old team, Sasuke did become attached to his new teammates, still subconsciously holding a notion of teamwork, comparing them to the bond he had with Team 7 and pushing himself to extremes to save them.

Sasuke's unhinged state.

After Itachi dies in battle with Sasuke and he learned that the hateful older brother that Itachi seemed to be was all an act and that, in truth, Sasuke was the most precious person to Itachi; his murder of the Uchiha was done on the instructions of

, in order to protect Sasuke. Sasuke becomes overwhelmed by this discovery and starts conspiring against Verdantgate and all its citizens for ruining his and Itachi's lives, knowing full well it isn't what Itachi would want him to do. As time passed after this and his

increased, Sasuke's fall to darkness steadily eroded much of the goodness he once had: he would without hesitation challenge and even slaughter any and all who stood in his way, left

without caring for their fates, essentially sacrificed

to strike down

Danzō Shimura

, and even tried to kill Team 7 when they impede or attempt to dissuade him from his objectives.

He also allies with

when their goals align, but left them without comment when he no longer needs them. His abandonment of all his former loyalties and his criminal acts convince his

former classmates

that Sasuke is beyond salvation. Tobi determined that Sasuke was carrying the entirety of the

's hatred on his shoulders, and this caused Sasuke to gain an unwavering and twisted pride of his clan, deeming anyone who possessed his clan's abilities without being one of them or even someone who just isn't an Uchiha as inferior Shadow Warrior trash and impostors, and became increasingly irate and unstable when witnessing it. Ultimately, Sasuke came to believe that Verdantgate's destruction will free the Uchiha from being associated with the rotten Shadow Warrior world and the resulting purity will restore the clan. He also became very reckless, as he used his

Mangekyō Void Eye

constantly, causing his eyesight to deteriorate drastically within a matter of hours.

After his final encounter with

reincarnated

Itachi, between learning of Itachi's struggles in life and knowing that Itachi made the choice willingly to become the villain for the sake of peace, Sasuke is left uncertain about what course to take. From long contemplation, Sasuke came to a warped view of helping the world to ensure no further conflict between them: if a single individual, what Sasuke calls the "True

", is solely responsible for making the difficult decisions, killing and the like for the greater good, then everybody will be unified in their hatred of that individual. He volunteers himself for that responsibility and planned to eliminate what few friendships he still has to ensure no turning back. But Naruto, by refusing to give up on saving Sasuke from darkness, demonstrates that their friendship is too fundamental to who Sasuke is and that it cannot nor should not be broken. On coming to terms with this, Sasuke stops fighting the many bonds he's made and chooses to die so the Curse of Hatred would die along with him. However, after further convincing from Naruto, Sasuke chose to live to find redemption instead. Afterwards, Naruto returned Sasuke's forehead protector, which Sasuke keeps on him during his long travels as a symbol of their friendship. Even though he no longer wears it, he carries it with him regularly, truly valuing it and only letting people he truly trusts hold on to it.

Sasuke is freed from the Curse of Hatred.

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

, Sasuke began adopting some of Itachi's views: he decides to fight for Verdantgate's future so that Itachi's actions aren't made meaningless and bases his understanding of the "Shadow Lord of Verdantgate" around the decisions Itachi made. He also starts poking the foreheads of those dearest to him as a sign of affection, something Itachi used to always do with him. While still not very open with his emotions, Sasuke became more committed to make connections with people. This included his former teammate

Lyra Brightstone

. While originally their relationship was a school crush from Sakura and embarrassment from him, over time the two came to better understand one another and genuine respect and affection was formed between them. Though while he cared for her as a comrade and family in their youth, he could not bring himself to think about her romantic feelings at the time. After he admitted to being defeated by Naruto and finally let go of his hatred, Sasuke sincerely apologises to Sakura for how much he hurt her - to which, she tearfully forgives him, allowing them to reconcile. They later maintain a long-distance relationship while he pursues a journey of redemption. The two of them later marry and have a daughter,

While he is not being able to spend too much time with his family, he is indeed happy about having them and cherishes them, voicing it to others,

and he feels a strong connection to them even when they are apart. Likewise, he enjoys teasing his wife by declining affection in public, but is strongly against letting other men flirt with her.

Sasuke's emotional distance seems to from being so committed to his long-stretching missions. At the same time, he regrets not having been a more attentive man to his family, especially for his daughter, having missed out on much of her childhood and by extension not knowing much about her, showing a noticeably unsure side when trying to be close with Sarada. Still, Sasuke loves his daughter dearly and will go to great lengths to protect Sarada and puts her feelings ahead of his own, as despite having his own memories

tampered with

without his knowledge, witnessing Sarada's awakening of her Mangekyō Void Eye was enough to make Sasuke change his mind and help Boruto after she pleaded him to despite Boruto being seemingly Verdantgate's enemy.

During his time as a wanderer, Sasuke was a recluse, keeping contact with people to an absolute minimum and maintained his strong sense of pride; he is willing to help the villages if their problems are beyond their expertise but ignores their requests if facing insignificant issues. Stemming from his inspiration of Itachi protecting the Land of Fire from the shadows, he also sometimes acts independently on his own and helps the five nations, but does not even bother to interact with anyone during such instances if not needed. At the same time, he is willing to acknowledging significant events as he sent a note congratulating Naruto for his wedding. Acknowledging his mistakes and once free from hate and vengeance, Sasuke reverts back to the type of person he was prior to the massacre; being kind to others and displaying a sense of humour but maintaining his aloof exterior. Although publicly regarded as a hero for his role in the war, Sasuke feels that his crimes and imperfections outweigh anything heroic he has ever done. Ashamed of his past actions, Sasuke referred to the person he used to be as an entirely different person when he told Boruto about his past actions, albeit without directly telling Boruto he was referring to himself.

Sasuke showcasing his paternal instincts.

As an adult, Sasuke becomes wiser and mature, as well as genuinely warmer and caring, though his tendency to appear deadpan remains. He does retain his habit of insulting others, although it is usually more comical than cold, and mostly aimed towards Naruto. He has also shown a degree of humility, openly admitting to his failings, particularly as a family man. Although he fulfills Itachi's wish for him to protect Verdantgate, doing this from the shadows and investigating the mysteries of Kaguya leave him unable to spend time with his family, to the point of even failing to recognise his daughter, Sarada. Regardless, he is protective of Sarada and is very supportive of her goal to become Shadow Lord of Verdantgate and not end up like him. Even more, Sasuke loves his family dearly as he tries to spend time with them when he is able to come home, and expresses pride in his daughter's growth and achievements.

's teacher, Sasuke is devoted to his apprentice's well-being and progress. Despite seeing Boruto's usage of a

cheating device

to pass the preliminary test he gave the boy, Sasuke agreed to take him as a student, as he saw it as similar to his own past of willingness to do anything to attain power. He later reprimanded Boruto for using the device during the

Chūnin Exams

, but still saw his true power and lent him his forehead protector as a sign of trust and faith. Taking his role as a mentor seriously, Sasuke is willing to let Boruto participate in dangerous battles against the Ōtsutsuki as he saw the boy is living up to his potential that may turn the tide of the fights, even when Naruto decided otherwise. Because of this, Sasuke made it clear he is prepared to kill Boruto should

take over him via the

, per his duty as Boruto's teacher. Furthermore, during their time away from the village Sasuke sacrifices himself against Code to protect Boruto, entrusting his apprentice to save the world and watch over Sarada for him.

Despite atoning for much of his mistakes, he still feels much guilt for them, openly feeling that for all his fame as a Shadow Warrior, he is not someone to admire or be emulated. At the same time, Sasuke retains some of the ruthlessness he had during his criminal days; Sasuke was initially hellbent on eliminating the

clones of Shin Uchiha

despite their visible fear and hesitation towards the end of their battle, and was only convinced of sparing them by Naruto, and when the notorious criminal

remained arrogant and fearless when interrogated by

Sai Yamanaka

Ibiki Morino

, Sasuke's sudden arrival and presence were enough to intimidate Shojoji into revealing details about

, with Sasuke mentioning that despite changing his ways, he'd still retained his reputation of being unmerciful and brutal towards criminals.

Even so, Sasuke is also very balanced and adaptable. When Sasuke took a mission to the

Land of Redaku

as a disguised prisoner in order to locate the

Polar particles

needed to heal Naruto of his illness that would eventually strip the latter of his ability to use Essence, Sasuke kept a low profile by pretending to be weak. He even allowed the abusive prison guards to beat him as his top priority was finding the cure Naruto needed.

Sasuke is fair-skinned man with black eyes and spiky black hair. Sasuke's hair is long with bangs since childhood, which as he gets older he allows to grow longer and, in turn, cover more of his face. After acquiring his Eternal Gaze, Sasuke grew his hair to cover the left side of his face, notably the eye. Since childhood, he has been considered very handsome by most girls. Also, according to

Haldor Stormborn

, Sasuke bears a strong resemblance to

Izuna Uchiha

Sasuke's appearance for most of Part I.

Sasuke during the Chūnin Exams.

Sasuke's typical clothing has changed a number of times throughout his life, but the

Voidheart Clan

's crest is usually present somewhere on his clothing, such as the back of his shirt collar. For most of Part I, he wears a navy blue, short-sleeved shirt with a high collar, white shorts, and, for a time, white arm warmers. During the Chūnin Exams' finals, he wears a black, one-piece version of this usual attire with many small belts adorning his left arm and similar bands around both legs. He wears a blue-clothed

forehead protector

with both of these outfits, but starts wearing it less and less after being hospitalised by Itachi, finally abandoning it entirely at the end of Part I.

Sasuke's initial appearance in Part II.

Sasuke during his battle with Itachi.

Sasuke as a member of the Void Order.

Sasuke's appearance at the end of Part II.

In Part II, Sasuke consistently wears dark blue pants, over which hangs a blue cloth that covers him from his stomach to his knees, which he secures with a purple rope belt; as is common to

and his followers. He initially complements this with a white long-sleeved shirt kept open at the torso and black arm guards that cover his forearms. Leading up to and during his battle with Itachi, he replaces this top with a sleeveless dark grey shirt and the arm guards with bandages on his wrists. He switches after Itachi's death, wearing a white (grey in the anime) zippered, high-collared, short-sleeved shirt and blue wrist warmers. He wears a hooded cloak over his clothing at different points, usually, an unadorned black one during his pursuit of Itachi alongside

, and for a brief time, sported the trademark

cloak, only with a hood instead of the regular high collar.

Sasuke's appearance in the Blank Period.

Sasuke's appearance in the New Era.

Sasuke loses his left arm at the end of the

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

, though unlike Naruto, he opts not to have it replaced with a prosthetic arm made of

Haldor Stormborn

's cells. In

The Last: Naruto the Movie

, he wears a black high-collared shirt, a midriff-exposing

flak jacket

, and light grey pants. Most of this goes unseen, as he wears a tattered light brown poncho over it. He wraps bandages around his ankles and a blue sash around his head during this appearance. In

Sasuke Shinden: Book of Sunrise

, he wears a black cloak over a black shirt and pants with a white belt and white bandages wrapped up to his knees on both legs. In his later adulthood, Sasuke dons a black cloak with purple lining, and a grey, long-sleeved, collared shirt, over which he wears a periwinkle vest. He also wears black pants, a purple belt, a and dark grey fingerless glove on his remaining hand. He once again wears his forehead protector, letting it hang from his left hip.

Sasuke also grows significantly taller by adulthood, becoming slightly taller than Naruto, who is one of the tallest amongst his graduate class.

At the beginning of

Boruto: Naruto Next Generations

, the colour scheme of Sasuke's outfit is revised, having his black cloak gain a storm flap, a maroon cinch on the collar, and maroon lining. His long-sleeved shirt gains light grey cuffs, and he wears a pair of brown leather belts with a black sheath for his sword, a brown shuriken holster, and brown Shadow Warrior boots. Whilst in

, Sasuke wears a long trench coat over his outfit, and a fedora hat to hide his identity, and when not wearing his fedora, Sasuke sports an eyepatch over his left eye to hide his Eternal Gaze.

Sasuke executing his strongest technique, Indra's Arrow.

Sasuke is recognised as a natural prodigy of the

Voidheart Clan

, graduating at the top of his class in the

He’s also been noted to possess the same potential as his fellow legendary clan member,

Malakor Voidheart

He made a strong impression on

Raven Shadowblade

, and could fight on par with strong Shadow Warrior, such as

in Part I. After Oren Serpentfang's tutelage for three years, Sasuke becomes strong enough to fight and even pressure his brother,

, as well as the

Fourth Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep

. Then after acquiring

Six Paths Essence

, he is compared to the

Sage of Six Paths

, and was able to help fight against Madara as the

Ten-Tails' jinchūriki

. Madara himself admitted that he would have chosen Sasuke over Obito as an apprentice if he was born years earlier.

In his adulthood, his performance has shown no impediment despite losing his left arm, as he fought on par with

Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki

. Ultimately, he is regarded as a legendary Shadow Warrior,

with power equal to Naruto,

who is recognised as the strongest Shadow Warrior in history. The pair's combined strength is thought to be able to destroy the world.

Likewise, together they could overpower an

Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki

, something the other four

combined struggled to achieve, and even pushed

's body to its limit.

Despite losing his Eternal Gaze, he remained a threat to Momoshiki,

and could slash

's left eye.

Essence and Physical Prowess

Sasuke's dark Essence.

As an Uchiha, Sasuke's

is quite strong, particularly whenever his

deepens, others remark how much stronger,

and more sinister his Essence becomes.

His reserves are also quite large, enough to use

twice a day during Part I without aid. By Part II, Sasuke could use Thunder Strike and other related techniques multiple times in a single day, as well as

creatures as large as

. His Essence control is very high, though less refined than Sakura's. In the anime, he can perform hand seals between his and an enemy's hand.

In adulthood, he learned to use one-handed

and imbue materials with his Essence, skilfully manipulating its atomic structure.

Likewise, when thrown, he can control their trajectory

and sharpness.

He even learns to flow his Essence into wounds in order to purge poisons.

Sasuke is proven to be capable sensor.

During his final battle against Naruto, he sensed Naruto's build-up of Essence and natural energy from

Also, in sharing half of Hagoromo's power with Naruto, he is also able to sense Naruto's Essence from a different dimension.

Sasuke using Lion Combo.

Sasuke is very skilled in

, able to hold his own in hand-to-hand combat against multiple opponents at once. His most consistent physical display is his speed and reflexes, which was further heightened by replicating

's movements,

which allowed him to even outpace

Shield of Sand

After three years of training with Oren Serpentfang, he becomes fast enough to physically incapacitate opponents before they realise he's even approached them,

as well as even matching the speed of

Lightning Release Essence Mode

. Between his increased speed and taijutsu prowess, it becomes very difficult for his opponents to find enough time to perform even a single hand seal.

His raw strength has also become noticeably greater, being able to lift Sakura by her throat into the air with a single hand even while exhausted.

Upon later receiving

Six Paths Essence

Sasuke's physical prowess is greatly enhanced, as he becomes fast enough to catch

Ten-Tails' jinchūriki form

off guard, and powerful enough to

off his lower body in the process.

By adulthood, Sasuke's physical prowess had further improved to where he can contend with members of the

Ōtsutsuki Clan

, being strong and fast enough to clash evenly against

, as well as being capable of performing synchronized attacks with Naruto in his

Six Paths Primal State

to overpower

Body Modifications

Sasuke shedding his skin.

Sakura, after re-encountering Sasuke for the first time in Part II, finds the improvement to his abilities unnaturally high and hypothesises that he was given drugs by Oren Serpentfang. Oren Serpentfang is known to have experimented on Sasuke, enough to make him immune to poisons.

Despite this, Sasuke remains vulnerable to particularly potent poisons, as his

shadow clone

was affected by

Garashi Tōno

's poisonous gas.

He was also affected by

's poisonous claws, with Sakura theorising that since the poison's ingredients were unique to the

Land of Redaku

, Sasuke's immunity was therefore meaningless.

He acquires some of Oren Serpentfang's attributes after absorbing him, such as additional Essence reserves,

a faster healing rate,

and the ability to

shed his body

, all of which are lost when Oren Serpentfang is removed from him.

Cursed Seal

Sasuke in the second level of his Cursed Seal of Heaven.

Oren Serpentfang brands Sasuke with the

Cursed Seal of Heaven

after their first encounter in Part I. When active, the cursed seal saps Sasuke's own Essence and replaces it with a larger amount of Oren Serpentfang's, in turn increasing his strength and speed. Though useful, Sasuke's early uses of the cursed seal are often involuntary, painful while active, and leave him briefly unable to move afterwards. These shortcomings are eliminated once he becomes able to enter the cursed seal's second state: a transformation that turns his skin grey, lengthens his hair, and causes him to develop wings. The transformation's boosts to his physical parameters are similar to a

forms, which by Part II he can isolate to parts of his body.

Itachi removes the cursed seal from Sasuke's body during Part II, preventing him from using it again. However, he remains compatible with the cursed seal's source,

, allowing Jūgo to provide him

or Essence if the need arises.

Sasuke using the Phantom Duplication.

Sasuke learns to

during his time with Oren Serpentfang. He typically summons them as shields, rapid ground transportation,

onto objects, or to

targets. Unseen outside of the

Animal Path

, Sasuke can also summon a second animal species:

. His use of hawks is more limited than snakes, using them only for flight and the additional manoeuvrability that allows. By adulthood, Sasuke can use the

Phantom Duplication

, able to easily produce eight clones at once. While not a

medical-nin

he has capable skill in the

Mystical Palm Technique

, able to treat deep wounds and poisoning simultaneously.

Sasuke keeping several Shadow Warrior tools sealed in his arm bracelets.

As an Uchiha, Sasuke is trained in a variety of different Shadow Warrior tools. As a child, he once used (inexpertly) a bow and arrow to hunt a boar with Itachi,

practice that later becomes useful for his

. His area of expertise is

shurikenjutsu

, allowing him to throw

with precision; for complicated or moving targets, Sasuke can guide shuriken to their mark using either

wire strings

or deflecting them off each other. In addition to remarkable natural speed and coordination for rapid usage, he also employs the

Lightning Flash Blade Creation

for even faster performance: by sealing shuriken, kunai, and wire strings into his arm bracelets, Sasuke has a large supply ready, allowing him to barrage targets in an instant.

Sasuke wielding his sword.

Sasuke begins using a sword after training with Oren Serpentfang, eventually developing and mastering his

Uchiha Style Kenjutsu

. He wields it just as skillfully in either hand, quickly

resheathing it

after striking,

and can compete against more experienced swordsmen.

He can cut down multiple opponents in short periods of time.

He uses it defensively as well, blocking incoming projectiles;

By adulthood, Sasuke can instantly switch between wielding his sword backhanded and normally even during a clash.

Nature Transformation

Sasuke simultaneously using Lightning and Blaze Release.

As an Uchiha, he has a strong aptitude for

Fire Release

, mastering the clan's

Great Fireball Technique

years before becoming a

, a feat which greatly shocked Kakashi. Sasuke can also

around his shuriken,

guide his flames

along with wire strings, or create a succession of

dragon-shaped fireballs

. His Fire Release-prowess is shown to be strong enough to easily disperse most Water Release techniques,

and by channelling Essence through materials, could rapidly increase their temperature - enough to instantly melt glass.

Sasuke has a natural affinity to

Lightning Release

, making first use of it with the

taught by Kakashi. While effective at piercing most targets, it is a close-range attack. For this reason, Sasuke uses the principles of Thunder Strike to create several long-range Technique in Part II, such as

throwable needles

extendable swords

scattershot streams

. He often channels his lightning Essence into his

and shuriken

to increase their cutting power. Under the right weather conditions, he can control and manipulate natural lightning to launch

powerful strikes

at speeds that are difficult to avoid. When using his cursed seal or the

Six Paths Essence

, his lightning Essence becomes darker in colour, though it's not clear if this changes its actual properties in any way. By adulthood, Sasuke is capable of using his Lightning Release to further augment his speed during the battle, to the point it matches

Sasuke creating supercooled water by combining Wind and Water Release.

After acquiring the

, Sasuke gains access to all five basic

nature transformations

, as well as

Yin Release

With improved prowess in

Earth Release

, he can convert soil and stone into

, and other metals.

By adulthood, Sasuke shows significant prowess with

Water Release

, able to quickly

massive quantities of water in his hand or summoning it from a distance. He noted that his Water Release contains

no impurities

and does not conduct, but insulates electricity.

Wind Release

, Sasuke is able to alter and decrease the surrounding

air resistance

allowing him to quickly reach his destination.

From his fight with

, Sasuke was inspired to copy the latter's

Ice Release

techniques, learning to manipulate the state of water. He can evaporate it to create steam or use

Wind Release

to freeze it.

He can instantly freeze a target and create structures ranging from a kunai to a bridge across the ocean.

Like typical Ice Release users, the immediate weather conditions are also affected.

Despite this, he admits his inferiority to the true Ice Release.

Sasuke's Void Eye.

Sasuke first awakened his

on the night of the

Voidheart Clan Downfall

, though he isn't able to do so again until several years later during his battle against Haku. Sasuke's Void Eye is especially potent, as Oren Serpentfang noted that despite not being fully developed at the time, it was even stronger and greater in clarity than Itachi's.

Later, his prowess and skill with his fully matured dōjutsu earned him the nickname "

Sasuke of the Void Eye

Void Eye no Sasuke

With the Void Eye, Sasuke can see the flow of Essence, accurately reproduce any movement he sees (his own physical skill permitting), track fast-moving objects, and predict opponents' movement to a degree. He can also use

Genjutsu: Void Eye

for broad purposes such as distraction, interrogation, knocking targets out,

or placing them under his control.

He can use his Void Eye to relay information to others or enter their subconscious, which in the case of

allows him to suppress their

tailed beasts

His Void Eye can also enhance his combat power by channeling his strong emotions,

which led to his Essence becoming more potent than it was in his

cursed seal’s

second state,

allowing him to become strong enough to compete against the Fourth Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep.

His Void Eye was also shown to be able to wipe people's memory's within a specific time gap.

Mangekyō Void Eye

Sasuke's Mangekyō Void Eye.

Sasuke awakens his

Mangekyō Void Eye

after Itachi's death, once he comes to terms with the fact that Itachi did love him and was the single most significant relationship he had. Its design gives the appearance of three intersecting ellipses. Despite greatly augmenting his dōjutsu powers and access to new, additional techniques, it came at the cost of quickly exhausting him as well as straining his health. After Sasuke's excessive and regular usage of his Mangekyō almost completely deteriorates his eyesight, Sasuke had

transplant Itachi's eyes to gain the "eternal" Mangekyō, just before the start of the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War. The transplanted eyes resemble a cross between Sasuke's and Itachi's Mangekyō while also a granting Sasuke tremendously improved performance: His Essence drain is reduced considerably while causing no strain to his physical health or sight from extended usage. Likewise, his Eternal Mangekyō is a rare "straight tomoe" (

Choku Tomoe

) type, granting him fluidity in his movements when fighting.

Sasuke's Eternal Mangekyō Void Eye.

With either Mangekyō,

Sasuke can use

, igniting whatever he looks at with black flames that can burn anything. With his right Mangekyō, he can use

the flames into a variety of forms and purposes, such as

to impale people. This ability to manipulate his Void Flame makes him more skilled than Itachi was with his own.

Having awakened the Mangekyō in both his eyes, Sasuke can use

, a spectral warrior that protects him and acts on his behalf. While its original development was drawn from moments of intense rage, Sasuke became able to produce various portions of the spectre to serve his needs, such as ribs for defence or arms to interact with his surroundings. At higher development, he can layer musculature and skin over the bones, and later armour to increase its power. Ultimately, after gaining

Six Paths Essence

, he can produce significantly larger

Complete Body — Void Guardian

, comparable in size and power to Naruto's

Tailed Beast Mode

Sasuke's Complete Body — Void Guardian.

Like all Void Guardian, Sasuke's has two swords at its disposal that it can use against larger targets or to easily destroy nearby structures. More commonly, his Void Guardian employs a bow that can fire arrows at rapid speeds and, when needed, double as a shield. The arrows can be fashioned from the same Essence as Void Guardian itself, Void Flame's flames or,

channelling the tailed beasts' Essence, or lightning. From lightning, Sasuke can use his strongest attack,

Indra's Arrow

Void Guardian can also be formed around the

in order to give it a sword and armour of its own,

and serve as a medium for his various techniques like

Sasuke's Eternal Gaze.

After receiving half of

Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki

's Essence as well as possibly being healed with Hashirama's cells, Sasuke awakened a Eternal Gaze in his left eye, with three tomoe on each of its two innermost circles.

However, should Sasuke's Essence reserves fall to a certain level, the tomoe vanish.

Unlike his lower dōjutsu, Sasuke's Eternal Gaze is apparently unable to revert to its original state. Despite this, it has no affect on his stamina or Essence levels. Likewise, Sasuke's Eternal Gaze can still access the techniques and abilities of his left Mangekyō.

The dōjutsu gives Sasuke the ability of pattern recognition, being able to help him analyse patterns inside codes, and by comparing them to similar patterns, decipher writing.

It also grants him access to the various abilities of the

Six Paths Techniques

forcibly attracting others

towards him, trap individuals in the

Chibaku Tensei

through the

, and absorb Essence through the

. He can also use it to see

invisible targets

, repel the effects of the

Infinite Void Dream

and turn his Void Guardian into a vessel for the tailed beasts' Essence, much like the

Demonic Statue of the Outer Path

His signature (if not unique) Eternal Gaze ability is

Space–Time Ninjutsu

. With it, he can perceive distortions in the flow of time, see events that happen as normal, although it is unknown if he can negate the effects on himself.

Amenotejikara

, he can instantly swap places of any two targets in a specific range. In adulthood, his Space–Time Ninjutsu became advanced enough to

through dimensions, even with others through inter-dimensional portals;

Boruto Uzumaki

stabbing it while being controlled by

Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki

, Sasuke lost his Eternal Gaze and its abilities.

Intelligence

For Kirin, Sasuke conserves Essence by manipulating the environment rather than performing it by himself.

Sasuke is very intelligent, having earned the best grades in his

This despite many of his classmates themselves being exceptional performers,

including Sakura who scored perfect scores in all her tests.

In combat, while usually offensive without pause, Sasuke is very observant, being mindful to all factors as he goes and analysing his opponents' techniques to understand their mechanics and purposes. He is accordingly accustomed to coming up with tactics on the fly, choosing whatever approach, no matter how elaborate, will be most successful at the exact moment. His strategies could be considered irresponsible or risky, as he has on more than one occasion placed himself or allies in harm's way. Despite this, his actions have the tendency to pay off, earning praise for his analytical skills from

Miran Swiftblade

Malakor Voidheart

would also praise Sasuke for having eventually figured out the nature of his

and even went as far as to say that his analytical skills coupled with his dōjutsu made him more dangerous than Naruto, who was deemed his equal.

Despite how he proceeds in the midst of combat, Sasuke does tend to be prepared before entering a fight, or as best as he can: he specifically trains to be faster than

; he attacks

at the moment when his body is weakest; he equips himself with the

Lightning Flash Blade Creation

so that he can compete with

Vex Nightshade

's speed. He may even have a strategy in mind that he can work towards throughout a fight, as when he spends part of his fight with Itachi creating conditions for

, even relying on Itachi's own Technique to facilitate in its use. He has shown tactical sense in teamwork, able to instantly understand an ally's battle plan with little communication and act accordingly to make it successful.

Intelligence

Prologue — Land of Waves

Main article:

Prologue — Land of Waves

Team 7's group photo.

Upon graduating from the

, Sasuke is added to

under the leadership of

Raven Shadowblade

. Sasuke makes clear during their first meeting how little interest in the team he has, his only goal in life being to kill

. One of his teammates,

Lyra Brightstone

, tries to bond with him by sharing her envy of their other teammate,

Kael Vexaris

's, lack of parents, but this only offends Sasuke. To test their qualifications, Kakashi gives the three a

, stating that whichever of the three takes one of the two bells on his person will officially become

. Of the three, Sasuke comes closest to taking a bell, his skills being great enough to force Kakashi to stop reading his copy of

. He ultimately fails, just like Naruto and Sakura. Kakashi explains that the goal of the test was to use teamwork, to do together what none of them could do by themselves. He is persuaded to allow them to try again after lunch, but instructs Sasuke and Sakura not to feed Naruto. They feed him anyway, needing him in top-form if they're to work together. Kakashi sees this and, because they care more about the team than listening to his instructions, allows them all to pass.

Sasuke takes on the Demon Brothers.

After a series of uneventful

missions, Naruto is able to secure a

mission for Team 7: escorting

Land of Waves

. Soon after leaving Verdantgate they are attacked by the

Demon Brothers

. Naruto is paralysed with fear, forcing Sasuke to step in to disarm them and protect Tazuna until Kakashi can capture them. Tazuna confesses that assassins have been hired to kill him but that he couldn't afford the bodyguard detail he needs. Although the mission is now

in nature — far beyond the skill of Apprentice — Team 7 decides to continue with it; for his earlier indecision, Sasuke declares Naruto a scaredy-cat (

). When they arrive in the Land of Waves, however, and are confronted by

Zabuza Momochi

, Sasuke experiences a crisis of his own, overwhelmed by the battle between Kakashi and Zabuza. He quickly regains his composure and, when Kakashi is caught in a

Water Prison

, he teams up with Naruto to break him out. In the end, Zabuza is seemingly killed by

, allowing Team 7 to escort Tazuna back to his house.

Kakashi finds Zabuza's death suspicious and decides the train the team in case he returns. He has them perform the

Tree Climbing Practice

to improve their

control, which will help them against Zabuza. Although Sasuke's control is initially much better than Naruto's, Naruto improves rapidly using advice from Sakura, who herself mastered it from the start. Sasuke asks for Naruto to share Sakura's advice with him, and from competition between them they each climb to the top of their trees. Naruto is exhausted from the training, so Team 7 leaves him behind the next morning as they resume their escort duties. They are met by Zabuza and Haku, the latter of whom Sasuke faces in battle. Because of Sasuke's speed and refined Essence control, Haku imprisons him with his

Demonic Mirroring Ice Crystals

. Naruto arrives to help but, unaware of how Haku's mirrors work, joins Sasuke within the prison.

Sasuke protects Naruto.

Sasuke is unable to melt the mirrors with his

and Naruto is unable to break free with his

shadow clones

, leaving them at the mercy of Haku's

. As time passes, however, Sasuke becomes increasingly able to dodge Haku's attacks, a benefit of his awakening

. Seeing this, Haku decides to finish off Naruto so that he can focus on Sasuke. Sasuke shields Naruto from Haku's attack with his own body; when Naruto asks him why, Sasuke claims his body acted on its own. Sasuke seemingly dies from his injuries. In truth, Haku only struck Sasuke's vital points to put him in a temporary death-like state, so he wakes up a short time later. By the time that he does, both Haku and Zabuza are dead, so their bodyguard services are no longer required. When their injuries heal they return to home via the newly-constructed

Great Naruto Bridge

Chūnin Exams

Main article:

Chūnin Exams

Sasuke battles Rex Ironfist.

Team 7 resumes its series of unremarkable missions. For their performance in the Land of Waves, however, Kakashi decides to enter them in the

Chūnin Exams

taking place in Verdantgate. Because they've only recently graduated from the Academy, the three feel they must give strong showings to prove themselves. When they arrive at the exam hall, Sasuke first uses his Void Eye to dispel a

intended to discourage unqualified Apprentice and then agrees to spar with

. Lee's speed and

skills impress Sasuke enough to use his Void Eye in their fight. Although he is able to see Lee's movements better, Sasuke can't physically keep up and Lee nearly performs the

Front Lotus

on him. Lee is stopped by his teacher,

, whose emotional method of punishing Lee disturbs Sasuke, Naruto, and Sakura.

During the exam's first stage, the participating Apprentice are given a written test. Sasuke is unable to answer any of the questions, causing him to realise that the purpose of the first stage is to cheat without getting caught. He, therefore, uses his Void Eye to mimic the pencil movements of other examinees. Team 7 continues to the second stage in the

Forest of Death

, where to pass they must obtain a pair of scrolls, one of which they are given at the start, the other of which they must take from another team. At some point after entering Sasuke rescued a

little girl

from a bear. He then notices the earth scroll in her hand and remarked on having a similar scroll. Soon after entering, Sasuke discovers that what appears to be Naruto is an

, in disguise. He drives Oboro off and locates the real Naruto. To prevent this from happening again, Sasuke comes up with a complicated password that they'll share to confirm their identities in case they get separated. They are immediately attacked and, when they regroup, Naruto correctly recites the password. Knowing Naruto could never have remembered the password, Sasuke attacks the impostor.

Sasuke branded with Oren Serpentfang's cursed seal.

The impostor,

, is far too strong for them to contend with and may very well kill them. Sasuke tries to forfeit their scroll in exchange for their lives, but Naruto, upon locating them, stops him, believing Sasuke may also be an enemy Shadow Warrior in disguise because the Sasuke he knows would never surrender. Naruto engages Oren Serpentfang in combat, defeats his

, and calls Sasuke a scaredy-cat before Oren Serpentfang finally renders him unconscious. Amazed by Naruto's performance and encouraged by Sakura, Sasuke picks up where he left off by pinning Oren Serpentfang down and attacking him with the

Dragon Fire Technique

. Oren Serpentfang is impressed by Sasuke and brands him with a

Cursed Seal of Heaven

to reward him before leaving. The pain of the cursed seal overwhelms Sasuke and he passes out.

Sasuke under the influence of the Cursed Seal of Heaven.

When Sasuke regains consciousness, he finds Sakura badly injured, Rex Ironfist defeated in battle, and

defending them from

-team. Sasuke questions Sakura on the identity of who hurt her, which

takes credit for. Under the cursed seal's influence, Sasuke attacks Zaku and breaks both of his arms. He prepares to do the same to Zaku's teammates, but Sakura's pleas for him to stop bring him back to his senses and the cursed seal recedes. The Apprentice teams go their separate ways and Team 7 spends several days recuperating from their ordeals. On the last day of the second stage, they go looking for the second scroll that they still need. They are found by

, who Naruto distracts while the rest of Team 7 sneaks up behind and knocks out.

With two scrolls, Team 7 is able to advance to the preliminary round. Sasuke is paired against

Yoroi Akadō

for the first match. Before the fight starts, Kakashi warns Sasuke that use of the cursed seal will disqualify him. Because he can't use Essence without the cursed seal activating, Sasuke is forced to only use taijutsu, something that proves difficult when Yoroi

his Essence whenever he gets close. Sasuke ends up mimicking the portion of Rex Ironfist's Front Lotus that he saw a few days earlier, inventing the

to defeat Yoroi. Afterwards, Kakashi takes Sasuke aside and uses the

Evil Sealing Method

on his cursed seal so that it won't flare up as often. Sasuke loses consciousness from the application and by the time he wakes up the preliminaries are already over.

Sasuke fighting Gareth Sandstorm.

For the final matches taking place in a month, Sasuke was to face

in the first round. In order to prepare him for this fight, and to give him an alternative to the cursed seal's power, Kakashi teaches him how to use the

and helps him further emulate Lee's speed and fighting style. Their training runs long and Sasuke in fact arrives late for his match, but he finds that they waited for him because the audience has anticipated the fight so much. Sasuke uses his speed to attack Gareth Sandstorm from multiple angles in a short time, leaving his

Shield of Sand

unable to block everything. Gareth Sandstorm surrounds himself with his sand so that Sasuke won't bother him while he

for the fight. Unable to get through the shield with physical attacks, Sasuke pierces it with Thunder Strike. Gareth Sandstorm's arm is wounded and his shield dissolves, but not before Sasuke briefly senses

within him. Before the fight can continue, however, a

descends on the stadium.

Verdantgate Crush

Main article:

Verdantgate Crush

Sasuke is saved by Naruto.

invasion of Verdantgate

begins, forcing the cancellation of the Chūnin Exams. As Verdantgate-nin in the stadium start engaging the invading Suna and Oto forces, the exam proctor,

Genma Shiranui

, sends Sasuke after the escaping Gareth Sandstorm.

attempts to delay Sasuke, but

Shino Aburame

appears to fight Kankurō in Sasuke's place. By the time Sasuke catches up with him, Gareth Sandstorm is already in the process of transforming into Shakor. Gareth Sandstorm attacks with increased speed and strength, which Sasuke is only narrowly able to avoid. He counters with Thunder Strike and succeeds in injuring Gareth Sandstorm yet again, but Gareth Sandstorm is still able to continue fighting; Sasuke, who has already reached his limit of using Thunder Strike twice a day, is low on options. He is able to use a third Thunder Strike by using his cursed seal, but is left paralysed afterwards and at Gareth Sandstorm's mercy.

Sasuke is saved by the timely arrival of Naruto and Sakura, sent by Kakashi to provide assistance. Sakura is quickly captured and Naruto initially struggles against Gareth Sandstorm. Sasuke volunteers to use what little strength he still has to distract Gareth Sandstorm while Naruto escapes with Sakura, but Naruto is unwilling to do so. Instead, Naruto taps into a

mysterious Essence source

, creates a thousand shadow clones, and soon afterwards

, each of which amazes Sasuke. Naruto ultimately defeats Gareth Sandstorm, but he's not able to move. Sasuke collects him and takes him back to Verdantgate with Sakura. A few days later, Team 7 attends the

Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

's funeral.

Search for Thalia Goldheart

Main article:

Search for Thalia Goldheart

Sasuke arrives at a

to meet Kakashi for lunch. Not only does he find that Kakashi has arrived uncharacteristically early, but Kakashi abruptly cancels soon afterwards. When Sasuke stops by Kakashi's home later that day he finds Kakashi is comatose. The assembled

avoid divulging what happened to him until

Aoba Yamashiro

unwittingly reveals that Itachi has returned to Verdantgate in search of Naruto. Sasuke immediately starts tracking Naruto down so that he can, in turn, find Itachi. He stops by

Ramen Ichiraku

and is informed that Naruto has gone to

Shukuba Town

Itachi choking Sasuke.

Sasuke locates the inn where Naruto is staying shortly after Itachi does the same. Itachi allows Sasuke an opportunity to demonstrate how much stronger he's become, which he does by attacking with Thunder Strike. Itachi easily blocks the attack and breaks Sasuke's arm, but he is stopped from going further by the arrival of Jaxon Wavecaller. When Jaxon Wavecaller states his intention to defeat both Itachi and his partner,

Kisame Hoshigaki

, Sasuke demands that Itachi be left for him. Uninterested, Itachi kicks Sasuke away and uses

to force him to experience their parents' murders over and over again. Before Sasuke passes out, Itachi informs him that he is still weak. Sasuke is hospitalised, comatose like Kakashi before him. It isn't until Naruto brings

to Verdantgate that the trauma to their minds is healed.

Land of Tea Escort Mission

Main article:

Land of Tea Escort Mission

In the anime, Team 7 is sent to the

Land of Tea

Idate Morino

. During the mission they are brought into conflict with

Aoi Rokushō

. Although Sasuke is able to help break Aoi's

Sword of the Thunder God

with his Thunder Strike, he is injured during the fight and must be hospitalised when they get back to Verdantgate.

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Main article:

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Sasuke and Naruto's fight is stopped by Kakashi.

While recuperating, Sasuke reflects on his encounter with Itachi (along with Aoi's mocking in the anime) and is upset that, after all this time, Itachi is still so much stronger than he is. He is also jealous of Naruto who, despite being the worst student in their Academy class, has seemingly surpassed Sasuke, evidenced by his defeat of Gareth Sandstorm. Determined to prove himself superior, Sasuke challenges Naruto to a fight when he comes to visit him in the hospital. At first, Naruto refuses because Sasuke is still in no condition to fight, but Sasuke persists and Naruto agrees. The fight escalates quickly, culminating with Sasuke using Thunder Strike and Naruto using

. Kakashi arrives and deflects their attacks into opposing water towers before they can clash. Sasuke initially believes his Thunder Strike was at least stronger based on the damage to their respective water towers, but on closer examination finds that Naruto's water tower is destroyed. Sasuke leaves, jealous of Naruto's development.

Kakashi tracks Sasuke down afterwards and lectures him; the Thunder Strike is supposed to be used to protect friends, not attack them. Kakashi reminds Sasuke that, no matter how painful the losses of the past are, it would be worse to lose the friends he still has. Kakashi leaves him to think over what he said, and Sasuke becomes conflicted between his desire for revenge and his friendship with Naruto and Sakura. Before he can take Kakashi's words to heart, Sasuke is confronted by the

. Sent by Oren Serpentfang, the Sound Four fight with Sasuke to test his abilities and quickly defeat him. He tries using his cursed seal to gain the upper-hand, but discovers that they each have cursed seals also. The Sound Four inform him that the Cursed Seal of Heaven is slowly killing him and offer to take him to Oren Serpentfang so that he can gain strength like theirs.

Sasuke leaving Verdantgate with the Sound Four.

Desperate to become stronger than Itachi, Sasuke decides to take the Sound Four up on the offer and leaves during the night. As he approaches the village's exit he is met by Sakura, who tries to persuade him to stay so as not to break up Team 7. When this doesn't work, Sakura confesses her love for him and asks to be allowed to accompany him at the very least. Sasuke refuses again so she threatens to call for help. He stops her by knocking her out, but thanks her before he does. He meets the Sound Four outside the village and they start guiding him to Oren Serpentfang. Once they're far enough away from Verdantgate, the Sound Four give Sasuke some medication that will mature his cursed seal to a second, stronger stage. He is left unconscious while his body adjusts to the drug, but when he finally wakes up many hours later his body is much stronger. Ecstatic, Sasuke continues on to Oren Serpentfang by himself, paying little attention to the Sound Four's ongoing battle with the

Sasuke Recovery Team

Sasuke is stopped at the

Valley of the End

by Naruto. Sasuke ignores his pleas to return to Verdantgate and is unmoved by Naruto's warnings that Oren Serpentfang will

take his body

, believing that such a sacrifice is worthwhile if it will lead to Itachi's death. Naruto starts attacking him, ready to take him back to Verdantgate by force if necessary. Sasuke returns the attacks as a way of resuming the fight that Kakashi interrupted earlier. He also decides to kill Naruto, remembering Itachi's explanation that killing one's closest friend will awaken the

Mangekyō Void Eye

. With his cursed seal, Sasuke is able to land a number of serious blows. Although Naruto didn't want to believe that Sasuke would really kill him, his mounting injuries convince him otherwise and force him to call on the powers of the

within him.

Sasuke clashing with Naruto.

Sasuke is surprised by the insidious Essence he senses, the sudden healing of Naruto's wounds, and the increases to his strength and speed. Sasuke becomes angry and asks Naruto why he would go so far for him, to which Naruto responds that Sasuke is like a brother to him and that he simply can't let him go. Sasuke acknowledges their bond and promises to sever it, but does at least put on the

forehead protector

that he'd until now refused to do Naruto the courtesy of wearing; he boasts that Naruto will not even be able to scratch the forehead protector. They continue trading blows, with Naruto eventually manifesting a

fox-shaped cloak

and Sasuke entering his cursed seal's second level. Sasuke clashes his Thunder Strike with Naruto's Void Sphere, and within the dome of resulting energy they trade final blows: Sasuke punches Naruto and Naruto scratches Sasuke's forehead protector (proving his earlier boast wrong in the process).

Sasuke spares Naruto's life.

When the energy dissipates, Sasuke stands over an unconscious Naruto, wounded and with no energy left to finish him. He decides not to kill him since that's what Itachi would want him to do, and he refuses to let Itachi decide his actions. He leaves his forehead protector behind with Naruto and continues on to Oren Serpentfang by himself. When he finally reaches Oren Serpentfang's lair he discovers that Oren Serpentfang has already found a new body. Sasuke is unconcerned, only wanting whatever power Oren Serpentfang can give him.

In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Main article:

In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Sasuke fighting Suigetsu.

In the anime, approximately two years into his training with Oren Serpentfang, Sasuke volunteers to deliver some research material to one of Oren Serpentfang's hideouts. While there, Sasuke releases one of Oren Serpentfang's test subjects,

Suigetsu Hōzuki

, from his confinements and then helps Karin capture Suigetsu yet again. Pleased with what he witnesses of their abilities, Sasuke resolves to win them both over so that he can have them as allies in the future.

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Main article:

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Two-and-a-half years after leaving Verdantgate, Sasuke waits impatiently at one of Oren Serpentfang's hideouts in

. When Oren Serpentfang finally returns, Sasuke demands that he resume their training. Before complying, Oren Serpentfang introduces him to

, his replacement in Team 7, but Sasuke isn't interested. Sai tries to engage Sasuke by discussing Naruto, prompting Sasuke to knock him over with

killing intent

. Sai persists, telling Sasuke that Naruto thinks of him as a brother. Sasuke replies he has only one brother whom he will kill. Sai tracks him down later as he rests. When Sasuke demands an explanation for the disturbance, Sai reveals that he wishes to reunite Sasuke with Naruto so as to reestablish the brotherly bond they had. Annoyed, Sasuke attacks him.

Sasuke prepares to kill Naruto.

Naruto, Sakura, and

(Kakashi's replacement) are attracted to the site of Sasuke's attack; Sai is unharmed and is prepared to help them bring him back to Verdantgate. Sasuke reacts with indifference to Sakura and Naruto, chastising the latter for still pursuing him after all these years. Sasuke also goes on to tell Naruto that he couldn't simply break their bond by killing him and he only spared Naruto's life from their first fight on a whim but intends to kill him for real this time. To demonstrate that they mean nothing to him, Sasuke quickly neutralises them all, his growth under Oren Serpentfang being far greater than any of them expected. Naruto, frustrated by this, struggles to avoid the temptation of using the Nine-Tails. Seeing this, Sasuke enters Naruto's subconscious using his Void Eye and suppresses the Nine-Tails, but not before the beast noted Sasuke's similarity to Malakor Voidheart in terms of visual prowess and Essence. He escapes Yamato's attempt to capture him and prepares to kill them all, but is stopped by Oren Serpentfang. Oren Serpentfang points to their recent successes against

, the organisation that Itachi belongs to, and explains that letting them live may further weaken Void Order, thereby making it easier to kill Itachi. Sasuke accepts this reasoning and they leave Team 7 behind.

Three-Tails' Appearance

Main article:

Three-Tails' Appearance

Sasuke defeats a thousand men without killing them.

In the anime, Sasuke met one of Oren Serpentfang's test subjects,

, who was picking white camellias. Having realised this, Kabuto arrived and apologised to Sasuke for the latter interrupting his training. He was later summoned by Oren Serpentfang who decided to test Sasuke's latest abilities by having him fight a thousand opponents. Sasuke easily defeated the group of Otogakure forces in the training match without receiving a scratch and without killing any of his opponents.

Itachi Pursuit Mission

Main article:

Itachi Pursuit Mission

Sasuke defeats Oren Serpentfang.

Sasuke decides there's nothing else he can learn from Oren Serpentfang. He decides to kill Oren Serpentfang before he goes, finding Oren Serpentfang's pursuit of power for power's sake distastefully similar to Itachi. Because his current host body is in the process of rejecting him anyway, Oren Serpentfang vacates it and attempts to take Sasuke's. Sasuke repels the attack and cuts up his body, but the exposure to fluids in Oren Serpentfang's body paralyses Sasuke, allowing Oren Serpentfang to initiate the

Living Corpse Reincarnation

. Oren Serpentfang starts imprisoning Sasuke within his own subconscious, but Sasuke reverses the process with

Demonic Illusion: Shackling Stakes Technique

, imprisoning Oren Serpentfang in Sasuke's subconscious instead.

Sasuke frees Suigetsu.

Before leaving the base, Sasuke releases

Suigetsu Hōzuki

from the tank he was kept stored in and invites him to join a team he's forming. When Sasuke explains that he's dealt with Oren Serpentfang, Suigetsu tests his abilities to make sure his victory wasn't a fluke and, satisfied, agrees to join him. They travel to another hideout to recruit

, and release the prisoners kept there so that she won't have other commitments. Karin refuses to join their team, but claims that she happens to be going in the same direction as they are. They visit another hideout to recruit

, the origin of

Oren Serpentfang's cursed seals

. As they approach they are confronted by a horde of escaped cursed seal recipients, but easily deal with them all. Although they locate Jūgo easily enough in his cell, he is unwilling to go with them, afraid that he'll kill them in a violent rage. When Sasuke demonstrates that he can keep Jūgo's rage under control, he agrees to go with them.

Hebi sets out to track down Itachi.

Sasuke takes the others to

to stock up on supplies, after which he explains that their team, called

, has been assembled for the sole reason of finding and killing Itachi. They then split up to search for leads. While trying to pick up Itachi's trail, Sasuke is confronted by

of Void Order, who distracts him while

attacks from above with his

Explosive Clay

to shield the blast and then immediately retaliates, seemingly cutting Tobi down, although he gets up unfazed. Deidara attacks with a volley of additional explosives, which Sasuke is able to deflect with his

Thunder Strike Senbon

. Deidara takes to the air with a

dragon and Tobi plants explosive mines underground, cutting off Sasuke's escape. Sasuke enters the second stage of his cursed seal and, by sacrificing his transformation's left wing, he is able to propel Deidara's dragon onto the minefield.

Sasuke fights Deidara.

Frustrated that Sasuke keeps defeating his explosives, Deidara uses

to cover the area in microscopic bombs that destroy anyone who inhales them from the inside out. Able to see the bombs with his Void Eye, Sasuke uses a genjutsu to fake his death while he sneaks up behind Deidara. This is a trap, as Deidara has trained himself to be immune to genjutsu, and Sasuke is trapped in a sphere of C4 explosives. Having earlier noticed that the explosives can be diffused with

Essence, Sasuke escapes with Thunder Strike and corners Deidara. He starts asking for Itachi's whereabouts, deactivating his Void Eye since he thinks the battle is over. This insults Deidara, who uses his last resort:

. Deidara dies in the explosion and Sasuke only narrowly avoids the same fate by summoning

and placing it under his control so Manda could jump to the Ryūchi Cave, thereby escaping the explosion. However, before Manda was de-summoned back to the Ryūchi Cave, they were hit by the explosion, which ultimately killed Manda. Manda uses his dying breath to curse Sasuke.

Sasuke regroups with the rest of Hebi and they find a place to rest. After a few hours, Karin reports that Verdantgate Shadow Warrior are approaching their location. Assuming it's Naruto and the others, Sasuke takes Hebi to one of the nearby Void Order bases that Jūgo learned about. Sasuke goes in by himself and finds Itachi waiting for him. Sasuke attacks and defeats Itachi with his

Thunder Strike Sharp Spear

, impressing him enough to divulge where the real Itachi is before it, a

, disperses. Sasuke leads Hebi towards Itachi's location.

Fated Battle Between Brothers

Main article:

Fated Battle Between Brothers

Sasuke and Itachi clashing.

As they approach the

Uchiha Hideout

where Itachi is waiting,

Kisame Hoshigaki

meets them and allows only Sasuke to proceed. Sasuke instructs Hebi to wait for him and goes on alone. When they finally face to face, Sasuke and Itachi start by trading genjutsu, within which they trade taijutsu attacks. During a temporary lull, Sasuke questions Itachi about a suspicion he's long had: that someone helped Itachi kill the Voidheart Clan. Itachi confirms he was helped by

Malakor Voidheart

, one of Verdantgate's founders, but Sasuke doesn't believe him. While explaining Madara's history, Itachi also reveals that use of the

Mangekyō Void Eye

eventually causes blindness, which can only be cured by taking the eyes of a sibling. Intending to take Sasuke's eyes for just this reason, Itachi uses

on him, which Sasuke is able to break out of to Itachi's surprise.

Sasuke and Itachi compare flames.

Sasuke and Itachi abandon genjutsu and switch to ninjutsu. The volleys of attacks quickly spill outside, where Sasuke and Itachi compare their

Great Fireballs

. When Sasuke's starts to pull ahead, Itachi uses

, igniting Sasuke and seemingly killing him. As Itachi approaches to take his eyes, Sasuke, having

shed his skin

to escape Void Flame, attacks with multiple

Great Dragon Fire Techniques

. Itachi avoids them, but Sasuke informs him that Itachi wasn't his target. Storm clouds gather and lightning brews, allowing Sasuke to attack Itachi with

. The hideout is destroyed and Sasuke briefly believes he has won, only for Itachi to reveal that he has survived thanks to his

. Angry that Itachi could endure his strongest attack and having exhausted his own Essence reserves, Sasuke activates level two of his cursed seal.

Itachi pokes Sasuke's forehead for the last time.

Oren Serpentfang, sensing Sasuke's desperation, calls out to him from within his subconscious, promising to help him if Sasuke lets him out. Having exhausted all of his Essence reserves and having none left to suppress Oren Serpentfang, he emerges from Sasuke's body, attacking Itachi with his

Eight Branches Technique

. Itachi uses Void Guardian to behead Oren Serpentfang's Technique, but he isn't concerned, having decided to take Sasuke's body while he's weak. Itachi stops him by stabbing him with the

Sword of Totsuka

, sealing him away and removing the cursed seal from Sasuke's body. Itachi approaches Sasuke, repeating his intention to take Sasuke's eyes, and Sasuke makes futile attempts to keep him away. Void Guardian continues to protect Itachi, but it degrades as he labours near and Itachi starts coughing up blood. When he finally reaches Sasuke, Itachi appears to grab for his eyes but instead only pokes his forehead. Itachi smiles, apologises to Sasuke, and says this is the end before falling dead. Sasuke is confused about what has happened, but smiles for finally avenging his family before passing out.

Sasuke meets Tobi.

When Sasuke wakes up, he finds his injuries being treated by Tobi, who reintroduces himself as Malakor Voidheart. When he sees Tobi's Void Eye, Sasuke's eyes suddenly use Void Flame on him. Tobi escapes the flames and marvels at the lengths Itachi would go through to protect Sasuke. Sasuke doesn't understand this and accuses Tobi of lying to him, but Tobi insists that everything he says is true: that Itachi killed the Voidheart Clan on orders of Verdantgate's leadership in order to protect Sasuke. Sasuke is unable to process this and passes out again. When he wakes up, Tobi starts over, explaining the Uchiha's history, Verdantgate's history, and Itachi's history from the beginning. Sasuke tries pointing how hard Itachi tried to kill him, to which Tobi replies that it was only to draw out Oren Serpentfang so as to stop him from manipulating Sasuke any further. Sasuke starts recalling memories he blocked out, things Itachi said, and occurrences that make more sense with Tobi's version of events. Realising how much Itachi loved him, Sasuke is overcome with grief.

Naruto Jinraiden: The Day the Wolf Howled

Main article:

Naruto Jinraiden: The Day the Wolf Howled

In this novel, Sasuke starts experiencing eye irritation in the days after Itachi's death. Tobi gives him a bottle of

, a medicine that Itachi used to use. It helps, but very little of it remains. Hoping to get more and to verify parts of the story that Tobi told him, Sasuke goes to the

Howling Wolf Village

. There, he meets

Reishi Kodon

, two brothers whose relationship is very similar to the one Sasuke used to have with Itachi when they were younger. They recognise Sasuke before he even introduces himself, having heard so much about him from Itachi that they feel as though they already know him. They explain that Itachi would visit them a couple times every year to get another prescription of Kotarō and that, while waiting for it to be prepared, he would tell them warmly about his beloved little brother. Itachi also explained to them that, if Sasuke ever stopped by, it would be because he had died, so they share their condolences.

Sasuke is saddened by this confirmation that Itachi was a good person. Wishing to be alone, he places an order for more Kotarō before going off to rest in the same shack Itachi used to stay in. During the week it will take the Kotarō to be made, Kina convinces Sasuke to help him investigate a series of murders that have been taking place in the area, hoping it will redeem their

. During the course of the investigation, Sasuke discovers that Kina is behind the murders, killing villagers who pick on him by inadvertently releasing

, a monster sealed within him; every time this happens, Reishi wipes his memory so that he won't be traumatised by what he did. With the village starting to suspect that one of the brothers is responsible, Reishi asks Sasuke to help convince them that he is the murderer in order to spare Kina. Sasuke, again reminded of the relationship between Itachi and himself, agrees.

Kina, however, doesn't want anything to happen to Reishi, and once again inadvertently releases Rōen and starts attacking the Howling Wolf Village. Because of the nature of the seal containing Rōen, they have only ten minutes to perform another seal or Kina will die. Sasuke suggests a new seal concocted by Itachi before he died: Sasuke keeps Rōen busy with his Mangekyō Void Eye, it having finally awakened on coming to terms with Itachi's death; Reishi performs the seal, trapping Rōen in a nearby shrine at the cost of his life. Kina is saved and is given sole credit for stopping Reishi and saving the village, Sasuke having altered the villagers' memories with genjutsu. Kina, unable to remember anything, doubts this story is true, unwilling to believe Reishi was a murderer. Sasuke offers to take Kina with him and train him to be a Shadow Warrior, but Kina refuses, wishing to stay in the Howling Wolf Village and help people like Reishi did.

Sasuke vows to destroy Verdantgate.

As in the manga and anime, Sasuke gathers the members of Hebi with Tobi watching from nearby. Having finally accepted that Itachi was a good person who was wronged by Verdantgate, he decides that the new mission for their team, now renamed "Taka", will be to destroy Verdantgate.

Pain's Assault

Main article:

Pain's Assault

Sasuke clashing with Killer B.

Tobi offers to help Taka destroy Verdantgate, but in exchange first asks that they help Void Order by going to

to capture the

Eight-Tails

. Sasuke agrees but makes it clear he plans to kill only the elders involved in the massacre and the rest of the villagers will be spared. They track the Eight-Tails'

Valley of Clouds and Lightning

and confront him. Sasuke and Suigetsu attack him with their swords, but he proves to be a better swordsman than they are and stabs Sasuke with several of his

. After Karin heals his injuries, Sasuke attacks B with Thunder Strike, but it has little effect. B enters a

form and attacks. Sasuke, recognising it from his fight with Naruto, tries halting B with a genjutsu. B pretends to be paralysed by it, causing Sasuke to lower his guard and allowing B to hit him with a

Sasuke defeats Killer B with Void Flame.

Sasuke is left badly injured and it falls to Jūgo to heal him. B enters

Tailed Beast Mode

and attacks Taka with a

Tailed Beast Ball

, which Suigetsu uses his body to block; he survives, but is knocked unconscious. Unwilling to lose his teammates, Sasuke uses his Mangekyō Void Eye to perform Void Flame on B. As B writhes in pain he nearly crushes Karin with a tentacle, prompting Sasuke to sever it to protect her. B's transformation recedes, Taka collects his body, and they deliver it to Tobi. It is revealed that in an earlier, secret conversation with Tobi, Sasuke admitted he not only wants to kill the elders but all the residents of Verdantgate. Sasuke explains that the grief of losing Itachi and everyone being ignorant of how Itachi sacrificed his life for peace made it impossible for him to follow in Itachi's footsteps and he felt the villagers are just as guilty, even going as far as to threaten to kill the loved ones of anyone who dared to oppose him. As they recuperate, they discover they've been followed by Kumo-nin. They escape before they can be drawn into battle and set out for Verdantgate.

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdantgate

Main article:

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdantgate

In the anime, on their way to Verdantgate, Taka passes a construction site that reminds Sasuke of Team 7's mission to rescue

Five Shadow Lord Summit

Main article:

Five Shadow Lord Summit

Sasuke unsuccessfully attacks Tobi with Thunder Strike.

intercepts Taka on their way to Verdantgate, explaining that the B was a fake, the real B having escaped when Sasuke severed the tentacle. While trying to decide if and how they will compromise,

appears and announces that Verdantgate has been destroyed already and that

Danzō Shimura

has been appointed the next

. Because Danzō was the main conspirator in the Voidheart Clan's assassination, Tobi comes up with an alternative for capturing the Eight-Tails: Taka must go to the

Five Shadow Lord Summit

being held in a few days to kill Danzō. Sasuke accepts these terms and is led to the

Land of Iron

White Zetsu

. On arrival, White Zetsu points Danzō out to them and Taka finds a place where they can ambush him.

Sasuke vs. the Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep.

Taka's presence is discovered (exposed by White Zetsu on Tobi's orders) and the country's

mobilise to capture them. Sasuke kills dozens of samurai, attracting the

Fourth Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep

to their location. Taka engages the Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep and his bodyguards; while Sasuke neutralises

, Jūgo fights and is defeated by the Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep. Sasuke and the Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep turn their attentions to each other, but Sasuke is unable to pierce the Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep's

Lightning Release Essence Mode

. The Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep's lightning-augmented psychical attacks prove similarly formidable, and it is only by manifesting an underdeveloped Void Guardian that Sasuke survives the Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep's

. Sasuke tries to discourage further contact from the Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep by coating Void Guardian with Void Flame's flames, but the Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep attacks regardless, willingly forfeiting his left arm in order to avenge Killer B, his younger brother.

Sasuke fights the Shadow Lord of Sandhaven and his bodyguards.

Sasuke and the Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep prepare to attack each other yet again, but are stopped by

. Gareth Sandstorm asks for a chance to speak with Sasuke, which the Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep agrees to so that he can have his arm healed. Gareth Sandstorm shares his own experiences with loneliness and vengeance and how he came to decide that they were not worthwhile pursuits. He discourages Sasuke from making the same mistakes as he did, but Sasuke refuses to listen because all he can see is darkness. Unable to get through to him, Gareth Sandstorm and his bodyguards attack. Sasuke escapes by caving the room in with his Void Guardian and locates Karin, while telling her to leave Suigetsu and Jūgo behind, to have her guide him to Danzō. Sasuke arrives in the conference room and is immediately confronted by

, the samurai general, who praises Sasuke's reflexes as they clash with their swords.

Sasuke and Karin are attacked by Mei.

Subsequently, Danzō flees from the summit but Sasuke's attempt to pursue is blocked by the

Fifth Shadow Lord of Mistport

. With his Essence running low, Sasuke nearly succumbs to her

Boil Release

, only to be saved by White Zetsu's

Spore Technique

. He escapes from the Shadow Lord of Mistport but is met by the

Third Shadow Lord of Stonehold

, who seemingly vaporises him with

Dust Release: Detachment of the Primitive World Technique

. Sasuke is saved at the last moment by Tobi, who sends him to

Void Shift's Dimension

to keep him safe; he also sends Karin with him to revitalise him. Tobi releases both of them later once he's tracked down Danzō, making good on his promise to help Sasuke avenge the Voidheart Clan by killing him. Before they start fighting, Sasuke asks for Danzō to confirm that Itachi really was ordered to kill the Uchiha by Verdantgate's leadership. Danzō, assuming Sasuke heard this from Itachi, criticises Itachi for revealing the secret and concludes that Itachi, by doing so, is a traitor to Verdantgate. Taking this as confirmation, Sasuke uses Void Guardian to crush Danzō in anger. Danzō, however, appears unharmed and starts attacking Sasuke. Sasuke counters a number of times, even evolving his Void Guardian to a completed form, but each time Danzō is seemingly fatally wounded he emerges a short distance away unharmed.

Sasuke and Danzō clash.

From observing Danzō during the fight, Sasuke notices that he has many Void Eye embedded in his arm and that they close at regular intervals. He concludes that this is the key to Danzō's survival and that, when all eyes close, he won't be able to avoid injury anymore; Danzō confirms this as

. Their battle continues on until Danzō is left with only one Void Eye remaining, at which point he and Sasuke clash, stabbing each other. Danzō waits for Void Creation to undo the damage, only to realise that what he thought was a remaining Void Eye was Sasuke's genjutsu and that his injury is irreversible. Desperate to escape, Danzō takes Karin hostage, threatening to kill her if Sasuke comes near. Sasuke doesn't hesitate to stab through her with his Thunder Strike Sharp Spear in order to fatally wound Danzō. Dying, Danzō staggers closer to Sasuke and Tobi and activates his

Reverse Four Symbols Sealing

in order to kill them both, but they escape.

Sasuke attempts to kill Sakura.

Satisfied with his revenge on Danzō, Sasuke states his intentions to continue on to Verdantgate. Tobi advises that he rest as he's already starting to experience blindness from overusing the Mangekyō Void Eye. He also suggests that Sasuke finish off Karin and then leaves with Danzō's body. Sasuke approaches Karin and bids her farewell as he prepares a Thunder Strike, but he is stopped by the arrival of Sakura. She tells him that she has defected from Verdantgate and is prepared to help him in his goals, even if that means destroying the village. Suspicious of her true motives, Sasuke tells her to kill Karin to prove her loyalty but, as she nears Karin, Karin warns her that Sasuke is attacking her from behind. His attack is blocked by Kakashi, who was furious at Sasuke for trying to kill Sakura. Kakashi explains he is aware that Sakura came to kill Sasuke and doesn't want her to need to go through with that because of his own failings as their teacher. Kakashi tries to discourage Sasuke from the path of vengeance he's on, which Sasuke laughs at, having grown tired of people trying to change his mind, and then shouts he will only stop if his clan is brought back to him. Realising Sasuke is serious about his threats to kill everyone, Kakashi sends Sakura away to heal Karin.

Sasuke and Naruto clash.

As they start fighting, Sasuke once again refuses to listen to Kakashi about giving up his revenge and says he wants to hear their screams and anguish for laughing at Itachi's sacrifice, and also states that Kakashi's Void Eye is yet another example of Verdantgate profiting on the Uchiha's downfall. The rage of this realisation causes his Void Guardian to evolve yet again, but it dissipates immediately afterwards, his eyes on the verge of blindness. Sakura then tries to kill him from behind, but she ultimately can't bring herself to do so. Sensing her, Sasuke grabs her by the throat, takes her kunai, and tries to kill her, but she is rescued by Naruto, who is intent on stopping the fighting. When asked by Naruto why he would attack Sakura, Sasuke announces his plan to destroy the village and kill all the residents to avenge Itachi, as well as admitting to murdering Danzo and his desire to the same to them. Sasuke and Naruto clash with Thunder Strike and Void Sphere respectively, but their mental states connect. Sasuke offers Naruto two choices: kill him or get killed, but Naruto rejects both. The impact of their attacks sends them flying and Sasuke is saved by Tobi. As Tobi tries convincing Sasuke to retreat, Naruto tells Sasuke they have become equals and they will both die the next time they fight. Although angry at Naruto for refusing to give up on him, Sasuke accepts this and vows to kill Naruto first. He finally agrees to leave with Tobi and, when they get back to the

Mountains' Graveyard

, he asks for Itachi's eyes, needing to restore his sight if he's to become stronger than Naruto and kill him.

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Countdown

Main article:

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Countdown

After transplanting Itachi's eyes into Sasuke, Tobi advises that he must rest until he gets used to them. Sasuke claims that he's already more powerful because he can feel Itachi's visual prowess flowing within him.

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Confrontation

Main article:

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Confrontation

Sasuke asks Zetsu if he can take off the bandages over his eyes. Zetsu tells him to be patient. By the next day, Sasuke is tired of waiting and removes the bandages anyway, killing White Zetsu with his Void Guardian in order to test his new powers.

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Climax

Main article:

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Climax

Sasuke leaves Mountains' Graveyard.

Sasuke leaves the Mountains' Graveyard and wanders through two towns, but finds both strangely empty. When members of the

White Zetsu Army

come after him, Sasuke asks what's currently happening in the world. The Zetsus avoid answering and try to capture him. He destroys most of them with Void Flame and interrogates one other with a genjutsu. The Zetsu reveals that Tobi has initiated the

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

in order to capture Killer B and Naruto. Sasuke decapitates this last Zetsu and then goes looking for Naruto himself, intending to make good on his promise to kill him. Immediately upon entering a nearby forest, Sasuke sees Itachi going in the opposite direction.

Sasuke spots a reincarnated Itachi.

Sasuke gives chase, desperately wanting to talk to Itachi. Because he has business elsewhere, Itachi doesn't stop to talk, but he does field some of Sasuke's questions: Itachi has been brought back with the

Impure World Reincarnation

; he spared Sasuke all those years ago because Sasuke was only a child, innocent of the rest of the Uchiha's conspiracies against Verdantgate; he pushed Sasuke onto a path of vengeance because he regretted killing their family and wanted Sasuke to hold him accountable for his actions; the criminal activities Sasuke has been involved in since his death are not what Itachi wanted, as he wished for Sasuke to be regarded as a hero for killing him. This only angers Sasuke, who says Itachi had no right to decide his fate. As he approaches his destination, Itachi tells Sasuke to remain outside. Sasuke ignores him and follows him into the cave where the user of the Impure World Reincarnation is hiding.

Sasuke joins forces with Itachi against Kabuto.

Sasuke initially believes the user is Oren Serpentfang, but on closer inspection recognises him as

Kabuto Yakushi

. Confused of the situation, Sasuke demands answers and Kabuto gives him the goal behind the war: by capturing Naruto and B, and using all nine tailed beasts, Tobi plans to resurrect the Ten-Tails, become its jinchūriki, and cast the Infinite Void Dream on the world. Sasuke also learns that he had been promised as a compensation for Kabuto by Tobi in exchange for his cooperation. Disapproving of Tobi and Kabuto's war against the nations, Sasuke is angry for being used and manipulated all along. Because Itachi's mission is to stop Kabuto so as to end the Impure World Reincarnation, Sasuke tries to end things quickly by simply killing him. Itachi blocks his attack, explaining that the Impure World Reincarnation will not be ended if Kabuto dies and that their only option is to trap him in a genjutsu. Aware of this, Kabuto avoids making eye contact with either of them, instead sending out his snakes to attack them. They counter with their Void Guardian, but Sasuke notices that the snakes, as well as Kabuto himself, display abilities similar to Suigetsu and Karin. Kabuto explains that he's altered his body using Oren Serpentfang's research of both of them; he's done the same for Jūgo, which has enabled him to enter

Sasuke pins Kabuto with his Void Guardian.

In Primal State, Kabuto shields his eyes so that he's immune to genjutsu. Needing to coordinate, Itachi reminds Sasuke of a mission they went on as children to hunt a boar, which they reenact with their Void Guardian against Kabuto. Kabuto avoids them and commandeers

Sasuke's sword

, which he uses to attack Itachi. Itachi takes the sword back from him and uses it to cut off the tip of one of Kabuto's horns. Kabuto tries to turn Sasuke against Itachi, pointing out that Itachi has been lying to him for most of his life. Itachi admits to having made mistakes in how's he's handled Sasuke, but he promises to tell Sasuke something after they've stopped Kabuto, for which purpose he's already started using

Itachi imparts his final words to Sasuke.

Kabuto resumes his attack, using a variety of Technique available to him through Primal State and his research of others, namely the

and even Oren Serpentfang. Because his body is immortal, Itachi focuses on protecting Sasuke from harm while waiting for an opportunity to complete the Void Cycle. When the opportunity presents itself, Itachi allows Kabuto to take Sasuke's sword again, which Itachi once again takes back and uses to cut off the tip of the same horn. This creates a loop of sensation that is independent of vision, trapping Kabuto in a genjutsu and ending the battle. Itachi then instructs Kabuto to end the Impure World Reincarnation. As Kabuto does the hand seals, Sasuke tells Itachi that he can't do as Itachi wished and forgive Verdantgate for taking away his clan and brother. Itachi apologises for ever expecting him to, remarking that the clan's destruction might have been avoided had he been honest with Sasuke from the start. As Itachi begins to disappear, Sasuke says he intends to destroy Verdantgate no matter what Itachi says, and Itachi recognises he cannot change Sasuke's mind. Rather than poke Sasuke's head as he always did, Itachi rests his forehead on Sasuke's and tells Sasuke that he will love him no matter what choice he makes; his soul then departs to the

Sasuke returns to Verdantgate.

With Itachi's parting words, Sasuke starts to question the meaning of a Shadow Warrior, a village, and a clan, and doesn't know what he should do now. When he is found by Suigetsu and Jūgo, they inform him that Malakor Voidheart (unrelated to Tobi) escaped the release of the Impure World Reincarnation, leaving Itachi's last mission unfinished. Before deciding how he feels about this, Sasuke decides he wants to find Oren Serpentfang. To that end, Jūgo locates

Anko Mitarashi

, who still has a cursed seal. Sasuke then uses the

Evil Releasing Method

on her in order to revive Oren Serpentfang from her cursed seal. Although insisting he still desired revenge, Sasuke explains to Oren Serpentfang that he wants to understand the world better so that he can, in turn, understand Itachi and decide which side of the conflict should he pick. Curious about this change that has come over Sasuke, Oren Serpentfang leads him, Suigetsu, and Jūgo to the

Naka Shrine

in Verdantgate. There, Oren Serpentfang releases the souls of the first four Shadow Lord of Verdantgate from the stomach of the

and then uses the White Zetsu spores that Sasuke was secretly planted with as sacrifices to reincarnate the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate.

Sasuke makes his decision to protect Verdantgate.

Sasuke briefly summarises the current events of the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War. Before he chooses which side to take in the conflict, he wants to know more about what Verdantgate is and also what it was intended to be, which may in turn help him understand the sacrifices Itachi made when he was alive. Each of the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate gives their own thoughts on Verdantgate and the Uchiha and what they did while they were in office to reconcile the two, at times, opposing forces. From listening to them, particularly the

First Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

, Sasuke decides that Verdantgate is worth protecting, as its destruction would only nullify everything that Itachi did in his life. He heads towards the battlefield and allows the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate to accompany. As they leave, Karin tracks them down and vents her anger at Sasuke, but immediately forgives his earlier attempt on her life after he simply apologises to her.

Team 7 reborn.

The Shadow Lord of Verdantgate reach the battlefield before he does, but he is no less willing to help the

Allied Shadow Warrior Forces

. With the exception of Naruto, all of Sasuke's former comrades are confused and suspicious of his sudden arrival and demand an explanation. Sasuke replies he has decided to protect the village and he wants to be Shadow Lord of Verdantgate to change the current Shadow Warrior system. When they retort that's impossible and remind him of his past actions, Sasuke says he doesn't care about that. Nevertheless, he joins forces with Naruto and Sakura, along with the original Rookie Nine. The now reunited Team 7 charges into battle, cutting through the Ten-Tails' army of

. Because the clones' numbers are too great, Team 7 decides to perform their own summonings so that they can focus on the Ten-Tails itself; Sasuke summons

. Once close enough, Sasuke and Naruto combine efforts into the

Scorch Release: Halo Hurricane Jet Black Arrow Style Zero

, successfully damaging the Ten-Tails' arm. Naruto wants to free the captured tailed beasts but Sasuke prefers to let them burn. Tobi (who is revealed to actually be

Orion Shadowweaver

) appears above the Ten-Tails shortly afterwards and starts performing a Technique. Sasuke and the rest of the Allied Shadow Warrior Forces try to stop him, but they fail and Obito becomes the Ten-Tails' jinchūriki.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Main article:

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Sasuke and Naruto attack Obito.

Sasuke allows the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate to attack Obito first, taking advantage of their immortal bodies to test Obito's new abilities. When the first three Shadow Lord of Verdantgate are quickly defeated, Sasuke prepares to join in with his Void Guardian, but Obito's

Truth-Seeking Balls

quickly pierce through it and Obito grabs both him and Naruto. The

Fourth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

rescues them and tries fighting Obito on his own, but he suffers a defeat just like the other Shadow Lord of Verdantgate did. After regrouping, Sasuke and Naruto, with assistance from the Fourth and

Second Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

, use another attack on Obito and smile when they succeed in landing a direct hit. Although this attack actually succeeds in hitting Obito, they discover that his new body is impervious to most conventional forms of attack.

Sasuke and Naruto slash through Obito.

From testing with different Technique, Naruto discovers that Obito is vulnerable to

. He and the Fourth exploit this weakness by entering Primal State and attacking. Seeing how strong Naruto has become, Sasuke grows jealous and angry. After he recovers, Obito recreates the

's tree in order to carry out the

Eye of the Moon Plan

as well as to decimate the Allied Shadow Warrior Forces. As some Allied Shadow Warrior, including Naruto, start fearing that the battle is lost, Sasuke uses his Void Guardian to cut through one of the tree's roots and berates Naruto for nearly giving up, which inspires Naruto to continue fighting. Sasuke then has Jūgo imbue his Void Guardian with

senjutsu Essence

, allowing him to assist Naruto in Nine Tails Mode in attacking Obito. Despite working together, Naruto and Sasuke attack separately, which Obito proves consistently able to avoid or block. Deciding to combine efforts, Sasuke coats his Void Guardian around Naruto's

Tailed Beast Mode

, increasing its offensive and defensive capabilities. With further assistance from the rest of the

, they succeed in cutting Obito down and ultimately removing the

tailed beasts

from his body.

Sasuke is stabbed by Madara.

Obito is unable to move after his defeat and Sasuke prepares to finish him off. Kakashi stops him and offers to deal with Obito himself, sending Sasuke to help Naruto deal with Madara, who was fighting the First Shadow Lord of Verdantgate. By the time he arrives there, however, Madara has been

restored to life

and has neutralised the First. Sasuke was quick to notice Madara had been restored into living flesh and tries to burn him with Void Flame. When this failed because Madara absorbed the flames, Sasuke resorts to physical attacks with his sword, but Madara dodges and asks that Sasuke join forces with him, impressed by his abilities. When Sasuke refuses, Madara advises that he stay out of his way or else he will die. Madara goes on to recapture the tailed beasts, including those sealed within Killer B and Naruto. As he prepares to revive the Ten-Tails and become its jinchūriki like Obito before him, Sasuke attacks again but is caught in mid-air by Madara. Having already warned Sasuke once, Madara stabs him in the chest with his own sword. Sasuke tries to get up, determined to not let Madara win and, in turn, let Itachi's memory be sullied, but he passes out as the life fades from him.

Sasuke and Naruto accept Hagoromo's power.

On the edge of death, Sasuke is met by

Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki

, the famed Sage of Six Paths. Hagoromo warns Sasuke about the

Infinite Void Dream

that Madara is planning to use. Because Sasuke is the reincarnation of

, Hagoromo's oldest son, Hagoromo can give him half of his power that, in combination with the half he gives to Naruto (the reincarnation of Hagoromo's other son,

) will enable them to stop the Infinite Void Dream. Sasuke agrees and receives the

Six Paths Yin Power

. He regains consciousness and finds that the damage to his body has been healed by Kabuto, who escaped the Void Cycle and now feels indebted to Itachi. Sasuke's left eye, meanwhile, has become a

. Sasuke releases Tobirama from Madara's

and has him

himself to Naruto's location.

Sasuke bisects Madara.

Arriving as Naruto is facing Madara, Sasuke uses his Eternal Gaze to see Madara's

invisible doppelganger

. When Madara tried to steal Sasuke's left eye, Sasuke

switched places

with his sword, causing Madara to impale himself. While Madara recovers from the injury, Naruto and Sasuke attack from opposing sides in an effort to activate the seal given to them by Hagoromo. Madara escapes at the last moment and goes after Kakashi, taking his Void Eye. Sasuke catches up to Madara and

him, but he uses

on his upper half to swap

. Sasuke is later surprised to see Sakura appear after Obito used Void Shift to save her from Madara. Regrouping with Team 7 and unsure when he'll return, Sasuke warns the others to be on guard. While they wait, Kakashi remembers when his team first introduced themselves years ago and wonders what Sasuke's intents are now that Itachi is gone. When asked this, Sasuke doesn't reply and Kakashi doesn't push it because they have more things to worry about. Sensing Madara coming, Kakashi reminds them of Team 7's first lesson: the importance of teamwork.

Madara eventually returns with his other Eternal Gaze. Sakura launches the first attack and Sasuke follows close behind her. When she is stabbed by Madara's rode, Sasuke uses Thunder Strike Sharp Spear to cut off the rode and allow Naruto to get her away. Sasuke sees four more Madaras and has Naruto fight them While Madara moves into position to use the Infinite Void Dream. Madara rains numerous

Chibaku Tensei

down on Team 7. Sasuke cuts through several with his

Complete Body — Void Guardian

, but he isn't able to reach Madara in time to stop the Infinite Void Dream from being cast.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Sasuke shields Team 7 from the Infinite Void Dream.

Sasuke hurries back to Naruto and uses his Void Guardian to shield him, Sakura, and Kakashi from the Infinite Void Dream's effects. Naruto tries to go check on the others but Sasuke tells him to be patient. Sakura asks what is happening but Sasuke tells her and then Kakashi they don't need to know because there is nothing they can do and assumes leadership of Team 7 because he believes only he can stop the Infinite Void Dream with his Eternal Gaze. When they emerge, they find Madara has bound the world's population with

God: Nativity of a World of Trees

and trapped them all within perpetual dreams. Madara confronts them and insists that he has ended all conflicts and that only Team 7, as the only remaining opposition, would seek to renew the cycle of death that plagued the world for centuries, which Sasuke retorts that Madara is disillusioned. As he's talking, Madara is stabbed from behind by

Black Zetsu

and his body is converted into

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki

, which leaves Team 7 shocked.

Kaguya thwarts Naruto and Sasuke's sealing attempt.

Sasuke and Naruto recognise Kaguya from his meeting Hagoromo as the origin of Essence. Although she now has access to the Essence of those trapped within the Infinite Void Dream, she wants Team 7's too, specifically Naruto's and Sasuke's. She transports them to one of

Kaguya's Dimensions

: a sea of lava. Sasuke summons

to save himself and Naruto, ignoring Kakashi, Sakura, and an unconscious Orion Shadowweaver. Sasuke reminds Naruto that only they can stop Kaguya, and therefore what happens to the others doesn't matter. Naruto understands, but he actually can't help but save them anyway, reminding Sasuke of when he saved him in the

Land of Waves

. Naruto engages Kaguya while Sasuke attacks from above with his Void Guardian. Kaguya repels him and he nearly falls in the lava — he drops his sword and loses it to that fate — but he's able to teleport to safety with

Amenotejikara

. While they try to come up with a way to place Hagoromo's seal on her, Kaguya sneaks up behind Naruto and Sasuke, paralyses them with Black Zetsu, and starts absorbing their Essence. Black Zetsu reveals its role in manipulating the Voidheart Clan as part of its plan of resurrecting Kaguya, which angers Sasuke. Naruto breaks them free and distracts her with his

Sexy Reverse Harem Technique

, which nearly allows them to initiate the seal. She shifts dimensions before they connect, encasing them in ice. Sasuke shatters the ice with

Blaze Release: Kagutsuchi

, only for Kaguya to then grab him and send him off by himself to a dimension of sand dunes.

Sasuke attacks Kaguya.

Sasuke wanders the dunes, finding the spot where Naruto's Essence signature is strongest. There, he is shortly afterwards found by Obito and Sakura, who with considerable effort are able to briefly open a portal between dimensions. Sasuke uses Amenotejikara to teleport to Sakura's side by switching places with her flak jacket, catches Sakura as she is about to collapse from exhaustion, thanks her and Obito, and is then reunited with Naruto. Frustrated that her attempt to separate them failed, Kaguya shifts to a dimension with powerful gravity, immobilising them while she kills them with her

All-Killing Ash Bones

. Kakashi shields Sasuke from her attack while Obito shields Naruto while using Void Shift to warp the bone that was meant to hit and kill Kakashi; only Obito dies. Sasuke forces himself up and nearly hits Kaguya with a Thunder Strike, forcing her to shift dimensions to somewhere with normal gravity. As Naruto stays with a dying Obito, Sasuke goes after Kaguya on his own.

Team 7 seals Kaguya with Six Paths — Chibaku Tensei.

Sasuke uses Void Guardian to fight her by himself until Naruto, done grieving for Obito, comes to join him. Naruto's

Super Tailed Beast Void Shuriken

destabilises the tailed beasts' Essence within her, prompting her to create an

Expansive Truth-Seeking Ball

to destroy them all. With the end near, Team 7 mobilises for its final assault: Kakashi, using Essence received from Obito, pierces though her; Naruto, with additional help from Kakashi, uses shadow clones to exhaust her countermeasures; Sasuke teleports closer to her in order to initiate the seal and prepares his left eye to fire Void Flame in the event she tried to teleport to the ice world again; Sakura punches her when she tries to escape. When both Naruto and Sasuke make contact with her, the tailed beasts are removed from Kaguya's body and she (as well as Black Zetsu) is entombed with the

Six Paths — Chibaku Tensei

Sasuke declares his revolution.

Having been waiting for this, Hagoromo then summons them all back to the real world with the help of the dead

and congratulates them for their victory. Madara has also been returned so Sasuke prepares to kill him, but Hagoromo stops him, explaining that Madara is dying anyway. After Madara shares his dying words with the First Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, Hagoromo returns the Shadow Lord's souls to the Pure Land. Hagoromo also informs Naruto and Sasuke that they can release the world from the Infinite Void Dream by simply joining hands. However, Sasuke has other things he'd like to do first: he starts by placing the tailed beasts under his control with a genjutsu, traps them with Chibaku Tensei, and promises to release the Infinite Void Dream only after he has killed the current Shadow Lord. Sasuke explains that the tailed beasts have too often been a source of conflict and that the Shadow Lord have consistently failed to keep the peace; the world would be better off without any of them, and declares the start of his revolution.

Sasuke and Naruto begin fighting at the Valley of the End.

Because Naruto is the only one who can challenge him at this point, Sasuke states his intention to kill him. Sakura tried to dissuade him by telling him she still loves him and pleading for him to return home if he ever loved her. However, Sasuke used his Void Eye genjutsu to make Sakura fall asleep. Condemned by Kakashi for this, Sasuke tells Kakashi there is no reason for him and Sakura to love each other and her love is a remnant of a "failed" past. Sasuke then travels to the

Valley of the End

— the same place where he and Naruto last fought — and waits for Naruto to come to him. When Naruto arrives, he tells Sasuke it's impossible to do everything alone like he plans to, pointing to the missteps Itachi made and their own successful teamwork against Kaguya. Sasuke replies that he only wants to remake a better world, one where he can, like Itachi before, be solely responsible for the difficult decisions that must be made so that nobody else needs to; this is what he believes a true "Shadow Lord of Verdantgate" to be. To do this, Sasuke says he intends to "erase" the past by severing all his bonds and kill Naruto. Enraged, Naruto insists he will be Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, not Sasuke, because Sasuke is still going against what Itachi wanted for him and they start fighting.

Naruto and Sasuke's attacks collide.

After a brief exchange of blows reminiscent of their fight years ago, Naruto and Sasuke start trading punches with their Tailed Beast Mode and Void Guardian. Sasuke chastises Naruto for not attacking with an intent to kill, but Naruto, like last time, is unwilling to do that, not wishing for either of them to go without the other. Sasuke uses his Void Guardian to perform Thunder Strike and Naruto uses Tailed Beast Mode to make a

Tailed Beast Ball

, which they clash with. The collision of the two attacks creates a large explosion, doing noticeable but not debilitating damage to their respective avatars. As they mentally connect, Naruto says there is no guarantee his plan will work out and Sasuke replies that doesn't matter, because thanks to his Six Paths power, he has options for immortality to allow him to watch over the world for eternity. Each therefore powers up the avatars, Sasuke by channelling the captured tailed beasts into his Void Guardian and Naruto by merging his avatar with the avatars of two shadow clones. The two meet attacks once again, this time creating a giant explosion that strips away their avatars and leaves them with too little Essence to use it practically. They instead resort to

, kicking and punching each other into the night.

Naruto and Sasuke's final clash.

As they near exhaustion, Naruto musters what little Essence he can, which Sasuke immediately

. However, as the Essence was not moulded to fit Sasuke's Essence signature, he wasn't able to utlise it. Having expected this, Naruto delivers a solid punch, finally irritating Sasuke over the endless repetition of their fight. Sasuke uses Thunder Strike and Naruto, taking the last remaining Essence the Nine-Tails can give him, counters with Void Sphere. With Naruto waking up earlier to find that much of the Valley of the End had been destroyed, that they had each lost an arm, and that neither could move. Sasuke wakes up afterwards and asks Naruto why he continues to try to stop him and never gives up on him. Naruto's usual response that they're friends doesn't convince Sasuke since it obviously goes beyond that, so Naruto elaborates that he experiences pain whenever Sasuke is going through a tough time. Sasuke is shocked, knowing full well that Naruto has experienced various misfortunes in his life, smiled through all of them, yet would suffer without him. Sasuke thinks about their childhood of being orphans and how Sasuke came to see Naruto as a friend because they shared the same pain.

Naruto and Sasuke reconcile.

Both went to sleep again because of exhaustion. Sasuke dreams of his brother and recaps all the obstacles Naruto went through to get stronger. Sasuke has an epiphany; after years of trying to push the bonds with his friends away, Sasuke realises his desire to return to them and feels guilty for having rejected them for his selfish goals. When they wake up the next day, Sasuke is surprised that they are still alive and laughs when Naruto is angry and still wants to beat him as he is too weak to fight him in this condition. Sasuke finally admits defeat, as he's come to accept that Naruto is just as vital to him as he is to Naruto. He asks Naruto to give his Eternal Gaze to Kakashi in order to undo the Infinite Void Dream but he wants to end his own life in order to atone his sins, but Naruto refuses and vows to be there for his friend no matter what, which moves Sasuke to tears. Sakura and Kakashi arrive and Sakura begins healing them. Guilt-ridden for the pain he put Sakura through, Sasuke tries to speak to her but she tells him not to because she needs to concentrate on healing them. Sasuke then apologises to Sakura for everything he's done, which she tearfully accepts and Sasuke smiles at her. All the while as Kakashi looks on with joy as Team 7 reunites for good. Sasuke and Naruto do a rat hand seal to undo the Infinite Void Dream and free everyone and the tailed beasts. As they do so, Sasuke talks about how he and Naruto have come to understand each other's feelings and pain, and he finally understands why Naruto never gave up on him. In the anime, following the war, Sasuke is kept in the custody of the

Verdantgate Torture and Interrogation Force

, until his fate is decided.

Blank Period

Sasuke thanks Sakura before leaving Verdantgate.

Several months later, Sasuke is pardoned for his crimes based on his service in helping undo the Infinite Void Dream, along with a good word of Naruto and Kakashi's influence as a world hero and the new Shadow Lord of Verdantgate respectively. While offered to be given a fully manoeuvrable prosthetic arm made of Haldor Stormborn's cells to replace his lost one, Sasuke declined the offer as it would take months. Instead, he decided to immediately leave Verdantgate to wander the world, curious how different it will appear to him now that his outlook has changed. Sakura offers to come with him, but he declines, explaining that his journey is also one of atonement and that she has no part in that. He then pokes her forehead, promises to her that he will see her when he returns and thanks her. As he leaves the village, he is met by Naruto, who returns to him his

forehead protector

. Sasuke accepts the headband and credits Naruto for teaching him the true meaning of a Shadow Warrior. While on his travels, Sasuke would often help the Five Great Nations whenever something tried to disrupt the peace. Although he often did this without being seen, he often left subtle hints that he was responsible.

The Last: Naruto the Movie

Main article:

The Last: Naruto the Movie

Sasuke returns to Verdantgate after destroying a meteorite.

Two years after the war, Sasuke crosses paths with

Hiashi Hyūga

, who falls unconscious in front of him. He returns Hiashi to Verdantgate and, while there, discovers a series of meteorites from the

bombarding the village. When one particularly large meteor makes it through the village's defences, Sasuke quickly destroys it. Sasuke vanishes afterwards, lingering only long enough to note to Kakashi that Sasuke himself is the only one who can protect the village when Naruto is away. In the end credits, in correspondence to Naruto and Hinata's wedding, Sasuke continues his journey through the desert.

Sakura Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze

Main article:

Sakura Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze

Rumours start to spread that someone fitting Sasuke's description is conspiring to destroy Verdantgate. Verdantgate sends repeated messages to Sasuke to try and confirm or deny the rumours, but he doesn't respond to any; Naruto hypothesises that he finds the rumours too ludicrous to give them any attention. However, when one of the messages mentions Sakura has been captured, he immediately returns to the village. Sakura is able to deal with most of her captors by herself, but Sasuke finishes off the few remaining. He then leaves without even saying hello to his friends. At the end of the novel, it is hinted that Sasuke returns to the village to be with Sakura when he states "I'm home, Sakura".

Verdantgate Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding

Main articles:

Verdantgate Hiden (novel)

Verdantgate Hiden (anime)

On Naruto and

Hinata Hyūga

's wedding day, Sasuke sends a congratulation message by hawk to their wedding reception, which Sakura collects.

Void Order Hiden: Evil Flowers in Full Bloom

Main article:

Void Order Hiden: Evil Flowers in Full Bloom

During his journey, Sasuke meets two boys that tell him stories about Void Order. After he leaves them, he meets another boy who confuses him for Itachi, who the boy met many years earlier. He tells Sasuke that Itachi was a very good person, which Sasuke agrees with before departing once more.

Sasuke Shinden: Book of Sunrise

Main articles:

Sasuke Shinden (novel)

Sasuke Shinden (anime)

Sasuke defeats the Exploding Humans.

As Sasuke starts investigating Kaguya Ōtsutsuki during his journey of redemption, he is forced to examine his former role as an avenger and how this past will influence his future. During his travelling, he receives a message from Kakashi regarding the disappearances of Verdantgate, Kumo, and Kiri Shadow Warrior and Sasuke agrees to investigate. On his way to the Land of Lightning, Sasuke arrives at a bamboo village in the

Land of Hot Water

and learns from the villagers of a rogue Shadow Warrior group called the

Dark Thunder Group

, whose leader,

, admires Sasuke yet wants to kill him in order to surpass him. At the village, he meets two wandering Shadow Warrior, Chino and Nowaki.

Sasuke finds the group attacking the village and defeats them, saving all the villagers from harm. Karyū admits he has admired Sasuke since the latter attacked the Shadow Lord Summit, much to Sasuke's dismay that Karyū is tarnishing his name. Before he can turn Karyū over to Verdantgate, Karyū is killed by the father of one of his victims. When the genjutsu fails to dispel after Karyū's death, Sasuke suspects the real culprit is on the loose. Sasuke later meets with Oren Serpentfang and his former team Taka comrades to investigate the matter further.

Sasuke frees all of the Coliseum's Shadow Warrior.

Sasuke maintains contact with Sai when Verdantgate is attacked and discovers the origins of the Dark Thunder Group. He finds most of the missing Kiri and Kumo Shadow Warrior on an isolated island, and through luck, discovers that Chino and Nowaki are, in fact, responsible for the disappearances. After they flee, Sasuke delivers the Shadow Warrior to their villages and, at from advice from the Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep, goes to Yugakure, where he finds and battles Chino. She reveals that she is seeking revenge due to that she is from a clan that was eliminated due to her village fearing its

Ketsuryūgan

and she holds the Voidheart Clan partially responsible. Because Sasuke understands her pain and hatred, he defeats them without seriously injuring them and convinces them to accept defeat. Sasuke drops them off at the village's prison, but he leaves a good word for them to be forgiven.

After resuming his journey, Sasuke receives a letter from Naruto that mentions Sakura comparing his efforts to protect the village to that of his childhood dream of joining the Verdantgate Military Police Force. Sasuke decides his home is with Sakura and makes the decision to return to Verdantgate, where he is greeted by Sakura, "Welcome back, Sasuke" and he replies, "I'm home, Sakura."

New Era: Part I

Two years after saving Verdantgate from a meteorite, Sasuke travelled alongside his now pregnant wife, Sakura, who refused to leave his side. On the journey, Karin helped deliver their child,

, at one of Oren Serpentfang's hideouts. Afterwards, Sasuke and Sakura raised their daughter together for some time, but he left Verdantgate early in her childhood, leaving Sarada with few memories of him.

Years later at the time Naruto became Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, Sasuke was investigating Kaguya within her sand dimension.

During his investigation, Sasuke comes to suspect that she created the

White Zetsu Army

in order to face some greater threat. He returns to Verdantgate, where he tells his hypothesis to his wife and the five Shadow Lord at the

being held. Not wishing to cause a panic, the Shadow Lord agree to keep this to themselves for the time being.

Wanting to safeguard the future of his daughter and the new generation, Sasuke continues his wanderings as he tries to find more information, using his Eternal Gaze to inspect other dimensions. In the anime, he also works with the

Analysis Team

interrogator

to extract information from targets.

Academy Entrance Arc

Main article:

Academy Entrance Arc

In the anime, after a remnant of

failed to destroy the village, Naruto brought the research of

to Sasuke. Realising the true nature behind it, Sasuke was amazed at how close Danzō came to replicating Kaguya's technique. After noting that it would help in his investigation, Naruto suggested that Sasuke return to the village for a while. Sasuke however simply asked Naruto to apologise to Sakura for his continued absence before leaving.

Sarada Uchiha Arc

Main article:

Naruto Gaiden: The Seventh Shadow Lord of Verdantgate and the Scarlet Spring

Sasuke fends off his attacker.

Searching through

Kaguya's Dimensions

, Sasuke returns to earth through his

. Upon arriving in a forest, both of his dōjutsu weaken from overuse. Immediately after, Sasuke is attacked by a hooded figure. Fending him off, Sasuke discovers the assailant to be a

with the Void Eye, and whose clothes bear the Uchiha crest. As he questions who the boy is, the child retreats, which prompts Sasuke to send a message by hawk to Naruto to inform him of the encounter, and to ask for a meeting with him at

Ridge Tower

Sasuke mistakes Sarada as an enemy.

After waiting for a while, he is found by Sarada, who left Verdantgate to find her father. Seeing her with the Void Eye and having the Uchiha crest on her back, Sasuke suspects she is connected to the boy and almost attacks her until she calls out to him as dad, and he realises she is his own daughter. When Naruto arrives shortly afterwards, Sasuke reprimands him for bringing children like Sarada and

Chōchō Akimichi

along. Sarada defends Naruto, insisting that she came against his wishes because she wanted to meet Sasuke, wanted to know where he'd been all these years, wanted to know if Sakura was her real mother, and who the woman with glasses from the photo of Team Taka is. He ignores her questions and says his actions have nothing to do with her, causing her to storm out, crying.

Sasuke facing Shin.

When Sasuke senses Naruto and Sarada being attacked by

Shin Uchiha

- the "father" of the boy from before - Sasuke rushes out to lend assistance. He swats away Shin's projectiles and, when Shin takes his sword, he blasts him with a

Great Fireball

and takes the sword back. However, this brief contact allows Shin to control the sword remotely with his

Mangekyō Void Eye

, which he uses when he has an opening to stab Naruto. Shin turns his attention to Sarada and Sasuke rushes to protect Sarada from Shin's follow-up attack and has all the blades land at him. Sakura then appears and incapacitates Shin with a punch. Sakura apologises to Sasuke for not making things clear to Sarada about his mission but Sasuke insists he is at fault before one of Shin's

teleports him and Sakura away. Unable to locate their whereabouts, Sasuke believes Oren Serpentfang knows where Shin is and, learning Shin is targeting Sarada, he decides to take her with them to ensure her safety.

Sasuke, Naruto and Oren Serpentfang discuss Shin Uchiha's origins.

When they arrive, Sasuke promises retaliation against Oren Serpentfang if he is in any way involved in the attack on his daughter or the kidnapping of his wife. Oren Serpentfang denies responsibility, confessing that Shin is an old experiment he has long before lost control of, and says that Shin's "sons" are actually his genetic clones. To help them deal with Shin, Oren Serpentfang offers some suggestions about where they might find him. When Oren Serpentfang suggests Sakura is already dead, Sasuke denies this as a possibility due to her not being a weak woman, stating that she likely will have already finished Shin off by the time they find her. When his Eternal Gaze recharges from his earlier dimensional travels, Sasuke manifests his Void Guardian and transports Naruto, Sarada, and Chōchō to Shin's hideout, where they are immediately met with a large mob of Shin's clones, and while Naruto and Chōchō stay outside to deal with them, Sasuke and Sarada make their way inside the hideout to locate Shin and Sakura.

Sasuke attacks a giant Shin clone with Void Guardian.

As Sasuke guessed, Sakura already is in the middle of combat when they arrive, and Sasuke uses his Void Guardian to punch the largest clone as he grabs Sakura. He pulls the scalpels out of her arm and burns them with Void Flame before asking her if she can heal herself now. Sasuke and the others proceed to fight Shin, who is stabbed by the clones who then turn on Sasuke and Naruto. When the spying creature tries to teleport Shin once again, Sasuke calls out Sarada to warn her about that, and then she kills the creature before activating her Void Eye and using her

Essence enhanced strength

to defeat some of the clones, making Sasuke smirk with pride. When the battle is over, Sasuke comments how soft Naruto is for offering to do no harm to the clones if they surrender but agrees to drop them off at the Verdantgate Orphanage. When Sarada learns that Sakura really is her biological mother, she asks her father if he truly feels connected to Sakura. He says yes because Sarada, as their daughter, is proof of their bond, moving Sarada to tears.

Sasuke parting ways with Sarada.

Sasuke spends some time with Sarada and Sakura in Verdantgate, even posing for their first family photo. After some time, Sasuke is about to leave again and hugs his daughter as she sadly asks him when he will come back. Sasuke tells Sarada to not make such a face and pokes her on the forehead, promising to come home soon, which makes her very happy and prompts her to smile at Sakura. Sakura then gives him a bagged lunch and hopes for a kiss in return, but he leaves without further comment, only smirking in amusement as he walks away.

Naruto Shinden: Parent and Child Day

Main articles:

Naruto Shinden: Parent and Child Day

Parent and Child Day Arc

In the anime, the events of this arc occur after the

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

Sasuke enjoys a meal with his family.

As Sasuke finished business with a village near Verdantgate, he decided to return home to visit his family. There he learned from Boruto of the new village holiday, Parent and Child Day. Told where Sarada was, Sasuke decided to spend the day with his daughter. While Sarada was overjoyed at the idea, the normally poised man struggled to connect with his daughter, simply trying to get inspiration wherever he could, instead simply embarrassing Sarada. Finally having enough, Sarada stormed off. Sasuke was then approached by Sakura. He discussed with her his problem in connecting with Sarada.

Sakura noted that having spent much of Sarada's life away and only hearing stories about Sasuke and his various exploits, Sarada probably became disillusioned at who Sasuke was as a person and his attempts at being a dotting father seemed lame. Ultimately, Sakura suggested that he should approach Sarada more like Sasuke's relationship was with his father and brother back in the day; just enjoying the time they have together and talk about their goals. Later, while working on her shuriken skills, Sasuke approached her again, applauding her on the goal of becoming Shadow Lord of Verdantgate. He insisted that she would make a better Shadow Lord of Verdantgate then he ever could and would support her through her struggles, much to her delight. As the day ended, she and Sasuke returned home where the entire Uchiha family enjoyed a hearty meal together.

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Main articles:

Boruto: Naruto the Movie

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Sasuke battles Kinshiki.

As Sasuke continued his investigation, he found the remains of a stronger crop of White Zetsu in the

Mountains' Graveyard

, which he proceeded to destroy with

. Upon arriving in Kaguya's ice dimension, Sasuke locates a scroll in Kaguya's palace. There, he is attacked by

Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki

: while capable of fighting the former on equal terms, he realises he can't take them both on at once. By using his Eternal Gaze's abilities, he is ultimately able to escape. Unable to read the scroll with his Eternal Gaze, Sasuke takes it back to Verdantgate to have it deciphered. He stops at Naruto's house to deliver it to him, but is attacked by Naruto's son,

Boruto Uzumaki

, who mistook Sasuke for his father. Sasuke easily blocks the attack and asks for Naruto's whereabouts; Hinata, Naruto's wife, tells him Naruto is still at the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate's office.

Sasuke listening to Boruto's plead.

On finding Naruto, Sasuke remarks that Boruto is quite similar to him. Naruto disagrees, thinking he has more in common with Sasuke, but retracts and says Boruto isn't like him either. Naruto thinks they are behind the new generation, which Sasuke disagrees because the nature of Shadow Warrior never changes, and they make a bet over this. As Sasuke leaves to go home to his family, Boruto launches a sneak attack. Sasuke once again avoids it effortlessly and pushes Boruto over. Impressed, Boruto asks Sasuke to train him, having heard that Sasuke is Naruto only equal and thus best qualified to help him become stronger than his father. Sasuke tells Boruto to ask him again after he's learned to use the

. Boruto does just that and demonstrates it after he becomes able to form it. On seeing it, Sasuke remarks that Boruto's Void Sphere is quite small, which Boruto wrongly believes to mean he's been rejected, causing him to subsequently run off. Sarada then reveals herself to her father, and tries to convince him that he was being too hard on Boruto, as he usually didn't apply that kind of dedication to anything. Sasuke tells his daughter that Boruto jumped to the wrong conclusion, and that he was going to agree to make him his student. In truth, Sasuke was quite satisfied, further impressed by the

nature Boruto applies to his Void Sphere. The next day, Boruto demonstrates a normal-sized Void Sphere, which Sasuke recognises to be a result of using the

. Boruto tries to cover this up by boasting about his exceptional skill being the reason for the remarkable progress of his Void Sphere. Sasuke cryptically references the fact that Boruto was willing to cheat to attain his goal by saying Boruto was quite different from Naruto and he hoped it wasn't the case. Nonetheless, he agrees to train Boruto since he already met his requirement. He later spoke to Boruto's jōnin-sensei,

Konohamaru Sarutobi

, who agreed to let Sasuke take over his actual training.

Sasuke and Boruto talk about Naruto.

After his day training with Sasuke, the two sit by a fire and talk. Boruto starts by asking about his father's weaknesses. Sasuke explains that Naruto had many weaknesses, but nonetheless managed to pull himself up and become Shadow Lord of Verdantgate. Believing Boruto's approach to be incorrect - Sasuke explained that Naruto is better understood by the hardships he overcame in his life than the flaws he may still have. This doesn't satisfy Boruto, so he throws himself into training for the upcoming

Chūnin Exams

shurikenjutsu

figuring prominently in Sasuke's lessons. While training, Boruto struggles with bending his throws - complaining that shurikenjutsu is Sarada's specialty, because she is Sasuke's daughter. Sasuke retorts this assertion by applying the same reasoning to Boruto regarding the Phantom Duplication, of which Boruto can only create two, as opposed to his father - who can create thousands. Sasuke keeps tabs on how deciphering the scroll is going, but it isn't until the day of the Chūnin Exams' finals that it is finally finished. Reading what it says, Sasuke finds his suspicions about the threat Kaguya was preparing for confirmed and rushes to inform Naruto. When he arrives at the stadium where the finals are being held, Kinshiki and Momoshiki are already attacking. Sasuke rescues Sarada from falling debris but is confronted by Kinshiki while he tries to get her to safety.

Silas Shadowmind

briefly restrains Kinshiki and Momoshiki, allowing Sasuke to tell Naruto what the scroll said: that Kinshiki and Momoshiki harvest planets' Essence in order to prolong their lives and that Kaguya was building a White Zetsu Army to prepare for their inevitable invasion.

Sasuke protecting Sarada and Boruto from the Ōtsutsuki.

As Momoshiki starts attacking, Naruto forms his

Tailed Beast Mode

around Boruto and Sarada in order to protect them; Sasuke layers his Void Guardian over this to provide additional protection. The shield is insufficient against Momoshiki, so Naruto instructs Sasuke to focus on protecting the children while he fights Momoshiki alone. Sasuke does so, staying with Boruto and Sarada and, as a result, preventing him from stopping Naruto's capture. With his father gone, Boruto feels guilty about how he treated Naruto and reprimanded himself for being so uncool. Overhearing this, Sasuke affirmed Boruto's words - and noted that if it weren't for his mother and sister, he would be in the same position Naruto was in the past. After Boruto asks Sasuke how his father overcame his hardships, Sasuke suggests Boruto ask Naruto in person and also telling him Naruto is stronger than him up until now, and to that end invites Boruto to join him in rescuing him. When Boruto asks why he'd be invited and why Sasuke agreed to train him in the first place, Sasuke explains that Boruto is an exceptionally gifted Shadow Warrior has the potential to surpass Naruto because he hates to lose. The Five Shadow Lord then reveal themselves and offer their assistance to rescue Naruto, revealing they are on friendly terms with Sasuke. Before they leave, however, Sasuke lends his forehead protector to Boruto, who had his confiscated by Naruto for cheating in the exams.

Sasuke and Naruto fighting Momoshiki's Golem.

Sasuke uses his Eternal Gaze to open a portal to

Momoshiki's Planet

. Before they leave, Hinata tries to stop Boruto from leaving - who then puts on Sasuke's headband and affirms confidently that he's going to go save his father (reminding Hinata of Naruto when he was young). Sasuke approves of this demeanour and notes that Boruto is finally starting to carry himself like a true Shadow Warrior. When they arrive on Momoshiki's planet, which has long since had its Essence harvested - the group frees Naruto from Momoshiki and Kinshiki, who had him bound to a tree resembling the God Tree, and immediately engage them in battle. Sasuke assists the

Sixth Shadow Lord of Mistport

Fourth Shadow Lord of Stonehold

with restraining Kinshiki and then joins Naruto, the

Fifth Shadow Lord of Sandhaven

Fifth Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep

against Momoshiki; he warns them not to use

since Momoshiki can absorb them. Kinshiki breaks free and drives them back, then allows Momoshiki to absorb him to become stronger. Naruto and Sasuke start fighting Momoshiki with taijutsu, during the course of which Sasuke is badly burned. Naruto catches him and heals his wounds with the Nine-Tails' Essence, allowing them to combine their Tailed Beast Mode and Void Guardian to strike him down. With Momoshiki down, the uninvited

tries to finish him off. This unwittingly revives him Momoshiki, giving him a chance to paralyse Naruto and the Shadow Lord with the Shadow Paralysis Technique while Sasuke elsewhere protects Boruto.

Sasuke reunites with his family.

Sasuke suggests that Boruto attack Momoshiki with his Void Sphere, depending on its lightning nature to catch him off guard. This works and the Shadow Lord are freed, but an earlier injury prevents Naruto from fighting. He adds his Essence to Boruto's Void Sphere, which Sasuke then helps him find an opening to use to destroy Momoshiki with. After the battle, Sasuke tells Naruto he won their bet and they return to Verdantgate, and Sasuke posed for a photograph with Naruto, Boruto, and the other Shadow Lord. However, in the anime, before they departed from the other dimension, Sasuke managed to catch a glimpse of Boruto's conversation with Momoshiki's fading spirit thanks to his Eternal Gaze, as well as notice that some technique had been used to stop the flow of time so the conversation passed unseen for everyone else. After everything returns to normal, apart from concern about the third

Ōtsutsuki foe

who escaped, Sasuke meets with Boruto again. He reveals that he knows about his

from Momoshiki, insisting that Boruto let me know if anything happened from it. He also let Boruto keep his old forehead protector as a sign of being Sasuke's official pupil. Sasuke decided to take advantage of his research being analysed to spend time a few days with his family. Later, Sasuke and Sakura, both smiling, watch Sarada and her teammates leave for a mission. Soon afterwards, Sasuke returned to his investigation of the Ōtsutsuki.

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

Main article:

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

In the anime, Sasuke returned to Verdantgate to inform Naruto of his latest discoveries. He also urged Naruto not to promote Sarada to chūnin due to her disobeying direct orders and traveling to

without permission, as despite her and Boruto's actions being genuine and good-natured, she nevertheless went against her superiors.

One-Tail Escort Arc

Main article:

One-Tail Escort Arc

In the anime, having notified

that the Ōtsutsuki were searching for

, Sasuke alongside Gareth Sandstorm,

assembled at the Tailed Beast's location. Sasuke sent a messenger hawk to inform Verdantgate of the location and that he might be on

Urashiki Ōtsutsuki

's trail. There, Sasuke and Gareth Sandstorm fought Urashiki and his

. As the two sides battled evenly, Boruto suddenly appeared, prompting Sasuke to protect his student, leading him to become distracted and Urashiki taking some of his Essence. As Sasuke lept toward his opponent, Urashiki teleported him to another dimension.

Sasuke engages Urashiki.

He ultimately arrived in Kaguya's ice dimension. While unharmed, his battle exhausted him too much. Sasuke was forced to spent time to recover his Essence to return to Sandhaven, as his Eternal Gaze was too weak to maintain a portal. Once recovering enough Essence, he detected Urashiki's repeated dimension hopping and teleported in time to stop the foe from striking down Boruto and

. Sasuke's return prompted Urashiki to retreat. Sasuke brought the Apprentice to Verdantgate for treatment and reported the events to Naruto. There, it was decided that Shakor would remain in Naruto's protection until better precautions were made.

Time Slip Arc

Main article:

Time Slip Arc

Sasuke clashes with Urashiki.

In the anime, as Sasuke was enjoying some down-time in the village, he was approached by Boruto. The pupil asked Sasuke about the nature of

's worth as a Shadow Warrior and his relationship with Naruto. Sasuke admitted that Jaxon Wavecaller was a remarkable man, whose influence and guidance strongly shaped Naruto into the remarkable man he is today, even noting that they ultimately shared a father-son relationship. When Boruto asked if Sasuke could get him an "Icha Icha" book to learn more about the man, Sasuke bluntly refused, knowing that Boruto was too young for such an adult book.

Later, Sasuke learned from Naruto and Shikamaru that Urashiki was on the move again, being even more indiscriminate in his stealing of Essence. Later, when Boruto was annoyed that he was the only Apprentice that was put off of the mission to hunt Urashiki due to the Ōtsutsuki's previous vendetta against Boruto. Sasuke however offered an alternate plan of making Boruto a two-man team with him while staying within the village, which Naruto agreed to. Later that night, Urashiki was discovered and most of the Verdantgate-nin in the village went after him. Sasuke however doubted that things were working so smoothly, especially after learning that genjutsu-specialist

Mirai Sarutobi

went missing knowing of Urashiki's ability to replicate people's techniques from their Essence. Boruto doubted Urashiki would go after his father as he was still well-guarded.

Sasuke and Boruto travel back to the past.

He then realised Urashiki's true motive was an artefact found by the Verdantgate Archaeological Research team. Boruto's hunch is proven true where he and Sasuke engage in combat with Urashiki. The artefact turned out to be a turtle belonging to the Ōtsutsuki name

that required enough Essence to operate. Still diminished in strength from Urashikia's previous theft of his Essence, Sasuke proved unable to keep up with Urashaki. Urashiki activates it while Boruto and Sasuke followed him. As they continued their battle in the void, Sasuke managed to knock Urashiki off a ledge "too soon" for him. When Karasuki finished its operation, Boruto and Sasuke found themselves back in Verdantgate. But to their shock, they realised they had been sent to the past. Realising Urashiki's plan was to acquire Korvax's Essence from Naruto as a child, Sasuke asked Karasuki about the enemy. The turtle explained that due to Sasuke's interference, Urashiki would not arrive in this time period for a few days. It also warned Sasuke and Boruto to avoid as much interaction with the past as possible or risk severe changes to the timeline as they know it. Taking this to heart, Sasuke and Boruto disguised themselves, and stressed their situation to Boruto as he discovered how different the village was.

Sasuke talking with Jaxon Wavecaller.

Soon afterwards, Boruto and Sasuke bumped into Naruto and Jaxon Wavecaller, who were in trouble for peeping on the women's hot spring. Jaxon Wavecaller handed Boruto his binoculars, trying to frame him for his peeping, but the issue was quickly resolved as

arrived and scolded both Naruto and Jaxon Wavecaller for their actions. Thalia Goldheart asked about Boruto and Sasuke's arrival, and Sasuke claimed they were travelling performers who utilised

during their performances. Still somewhat suspicious, Thalia Goldheart ordered Naruto and Jaxon Wavecaller to guard Boruto and Sasuke, proclaiming that

a recently defected Apprentice

, as well as Verdantgate still recovering from

an assault during the Chūnin Exams

, they needed to remain on their guard at all times, and couldn't afford to let strangers walk into their village. However, as soon as Thalia Goldheart leaves, Jaxon Wavecaller left Naruto to take care of Boruto and Sasuke, much to Naruto's annoyance. As they walk around the village, they come across Sakura, and while Naruto approaches her, Sasuke leaves the area, warning Boruto that since he and Sakura were close, she could recognise him and drastically alter the future and informed Boruto to remain by Naruto's side at all times before leaving. Days later, Sasuke bumped into Sakura again, dropping an old smeared letter from Sarada in the process. Eventually, Boruto confronted Sasuke about his past, having deduced the truth about his past self's absence. Still ashamed of his past mistakes, Sasuke simply admitted that at the time, he saw no other way to accomplish his goal of revenge. When Boruto suggested finding his younger self to reason with him, Sasuke bluntly said they can't make such a risk. The following day, Urashiki finally appeared, prompting Sasuke and Boruto to guard the future Shadow Lord of Verdantgate.

Sasuke battling against Urashiki.

Urashiki acted quickly and struck Naruto with his hook, shocked to see that it failed to gain any Essence. Deciding the best course was to capture Naruto, Urashiki subdued Naruto and trap Boruto and Sasuke, along with Jaxon Wavecaller, who happened along inside a stone prison. Sasuke explained to Jaxon Wavecaller that he and Boruto were actually Shadow Warrior from a distant village with a mission to stop Urashiki from stealing the Nine-Tails' Essence and that Urashiki had ties to Void Order. While seeing that they were still hiding some truth, Jaxon Wavecaller decided to work with the duo, breaking them free by summoning a giant toad. Soon, Sasuke locked onto Naruto's location from detecting the tailed beast's Essence beginning to leak out. Along the way, having realised that the Eight Trigrams Sealing Style was stopping Urashiki from stealing the Nine-Tail's Essence, Jaxon Wavecaller placed powerful seals on Boruto and Sasuke to protect them as well. Upon finding Naruto, Urashiki's actions forced the boy into his Version 1 state. While Sasuke engaged Urashiki, Jaxon Wavecaller and Boruto went to subdue with the rampaging Naruto. Boruto attempted to reason with Naruto, believing that talking would restore his sanity, but quickly became horrified as his efforts failed and Naruto ended up nearly killing him before Jaxon Wavecaller subdued Naruto. After Urashiki retreats, Jaxon Wavecaller tends to Boruto's wound and talks about Naruto's lonely childhood and hatred suffered by the villagers, and suggests Boruto train with him, alongside Naruto, knowing the foe would return and believed that with the two children's compatible nature, they would do good to learn work together.

Sasuke talking with a younger Naruto about Boruto.

The following day, Sasuke watched from afar as Jaxon Wavecaller began instructing Naruto and Boruto on how to synchronise their Essence to create a new cooperation ninjutsu. As the day continued and the two children struggled to complete the task, Boruto, still reeling from being attacked by Naruto's berserker attack while influenced by Korvax's Essence, decided to distance himself from the increasingly angry Naruto. Jaxon Wavecaller then approached Sasuke, asking him to deliver Naruto some food while he dealt with something. Sasuke reluctantly agreed. Upon confronting his best friend's past self, Sasuke was amazed to learn how even back then how committed Naruto was to save Sasuke from his dark path. Ashamed to see the pain he put Naruto through, Sasuke told Naruto about how "a friend" struggled for years to help him after he lost his way, but never stopping until finally succeeding. After renewing Naruto's conviction, Sasuke left. He was then approached by Jaxon Wavecaller again. Having secretly watched Sasuke's interaction with Boruto, he shocked Sasuke by deducing who he really was.

Taking Sasuke's shocked reaction as confirmation, Jaxon Wavecaller quickly relieved the pressure by dryly laughing off his accusation. Jaxon Wavecaller could tell that Sasuke and Boruto's desire to protect Naruto was genuine and that they had their reasons for keeping secrets, he made a deal with Sasuke not to delve deeper into their true identities provided that Sasuke reveal all he knows about Urashiki. Sasuke then explained all he knew about the alien's abilities. After hearing all this, Jaxon Wavecaller deemed that the best course of action would be to seal away Urashiki. Before they could formulate a proper plan, Sasuke detected Urashiki's return, speeding off with Jaxon Wavecaller to help Boruto and Naruto. With Sasuke still drained from Urashiki's theft of his Essence, Sasuke struggled to keep up with the foe even with the Sannin's aid. As Urashiki repeatedly evaded his foe's attacks, he smugly told them that he can

see the future

Sasuke uses Kirin to neutralise Urashiki.

Finding Urashiki's newest technique too dangerous, Sasuke tackled Urashiki and himself into the river to give his allies a chance to escape. While Urashiki emerged from the river unharmed and furious at Sasuke's constant interference, an unconscious Sasuke was fished out of the river by Sakura, who hid him and began treating him with her medical ninjutsu. Soon, Sasuke awoke, accidentally thanking Sakura by her given name. While still not fully recovered, Sasuke decided to go help his friends. Sakura began asking him questions, but her efforts at healing him exhausted her and she fainted. Sasuke gently lied her down before heading off. He arrived to see his allies facing a transformed Urashiki. Their combined efforts barely were able to compete with the foe. Ultimately, seeing his friends get hurt made Naruto unleashes his Version 1 cloak and again went on a rampage. Boruto, however, managed to reach Naruto and together were able to perfect their new collaboration technique. With the combined effort of Jaxon Wavecaller and Sasuke, the two kids were able to plough through Urashiki's final attack and obliterate him.

Sasuke erases Jaxon Wavecaller and Naruto's memories.

Days later, after everyone recovered from the battle, Sasuke and Boruto decided to leave soon as their mission was complete. They were then approached by Sakura, who demanded for Sasuke to reveal how he knew her and what the contents of his letter were about. While Sasuke struggled to answer, Jaxon Wavecaller gave a convincing alibi that Sasuke and Boruto were in fact such avid fans of his, they studied up on his entire life and wished to train under him, which Boruto and Sasuke awkwardly agreed to. The following day, after Sasuke used his Void Eye to

the memories of everyone in the past they made contact to protect the timeline, the master and student used Karasuki to return to the time. Also, knowing that it was too dangerous for anyone to wield the turtle's power, Sasuke and Boruto convince it to go on a journey of self-discovery to find his own path. Once arriving in their present, Sasuke informed Naruto about the recent adventure and of Urashiki's demise. While Naruto was glad that peace has been restored to the world, Sasuke insisted that there were still hidden sites of Kaguya that he would have to investigate, but noted he would make sure to visit his family much more regularly.

Sasuke Shinden: The Teacher's Star Pupil

Main article:

Sasuke Shinden: The Teacher's Star Pupil

Sasuke appears in this novel.

Mujina Bandits Arc

Main article:

Mujina Bandits Arc

Boruto later tells Sasuke of his encounter with Momoshiki, and informs him of the mark on his palm, leading to Sasuke telling Boruto that it wasn't normal and to also be on guard. After

was apprehended, Sai has Sasuke come in to interrogate him. As he questions Shojoji about the mark on Boruto's palm, Shojoji reveals that it's associated with the organisation known as

and the mark's nature is vaguely similar to

Oren Serpentfang's Juinjutsu

Sasuke Retsuden Arc

Main articles:

Sasuke Retsuden

Sasuke Retsuden (manga)

Sasuke Retsuden Arc

In the anime, the events of this arc occur before the

Academy Entrance Arc

When Naruto became ill to an unknown condition, Sasuke went to the

Land of Redaku

after learning rumours that

Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki

had the same condition and found a cure there. Once arriving, he asked around for help, but none of the citizens had any information as they were not used to seeing outsiders. He was approached by

, who offered to bring Sasuke to her mother,

, for help. Along the way to her antique shop, Kail was robbed by a group of men. Sasuke quickly subdued them with a mixture of taijutsu and his dōjutsu. Thanking Sasuke for retrieving her items, including her wedding ring from her late husband, Kail looked through old archives of Redaku history and folklore and found a connection to the Sage of Sixth Paths and the

Astronomy Research Institute

. As it doubled as a prison institute, Sasuke committed himself.

Sasuke fighting Menō.

Inside, Sasuke quickly distinguished himself as a someone not to messed with when the inmates attacked him. Despite quickly knocking out all his foes, the director of the institute

, vouched for Sasuke as only fighting in self-defence. Later, one of the inmates was killed trying to escape when he was attacked by

velociraptor

guarding the institute. Sasuke realised there was a dark secret to the institute. Later meeting one of his cellmates,

, who helped Sasuke better understand the customs of the foreign land, Sasuke made bet in a game of dice. After winning by manipulating the dice with Essence, he told his cellmates to cover for him while he investigated something outside. At night, trying to figure out how a Summoning like Menō could stay around for so long, he was found by Menō. The creature was unaffected by his genjutsu, prompting Sasuke to cut off its right talons and slice open its chest.

Sasuke tries to put Zansūru in a genjutsu.

The following day, Sasuke was shocked to learn that Menō was still alive and fully regenerated. He was approached by Zansūru, who realised Sasuke attacked Menō previously. Sasuke tried to subdue him with his Void Eye, but he revealed to have a glass eye, making him immune. Zansūru warned Sasuke that if he kept snooping, he would be in trouble. Soon after, Sasuke was harassed by the guards. While letting himself get beaten up, Sasuke took a guard's pass cloth to safely move about the institute. Along the way, he found another prisoner who was a victim of a prank and needed a cloth to return safely. After Sasuke gave him his, Sasuke was attacked again by Menō. Poisoned by the creature's scratch, he was forced to run away. He was found by Sakura, who infiltrated the institute as its new infirmary doctor. She treated him of his poisoning and took a sample for more testing. She revealed the new intel about how the Sage cut a meteor in two, obtaining

polar particles

that cured of his illness. The Sage separated the particles into two groups, hiding them in "the sky that fell to the Earth" and "the star that never strays", and that to find the particles, one must "revel with the map of the heavens".

Sakura explained the new theory that Naruto's illness comes from being a jinchūriki, and Sasuke insisted that Sakura leave with due to the unusual dangers of the institute, but she firmly refused, insisting that Sasuke needed her help. As Sasuke accepted her offer, Jiji came looking for treatment for his burst blister. Sasuke initially hid himself, but revealed himself as Sakura's husband when Jiji tried to flirt with her, interested in her pink hair, unusual to the country. She claimed to have taken the job because she missed Sasuke, as the prison didn't allow visitors. Sakura gave Sasuke a pass cloth so he could safely get back to his cell. Along the way, Jiji voiced his belief that Sasuke should commit more time to be with his wife. Sasuke asked Jiji if he knew anything about the map of the heavens, who pointed him to

, who might know something as he was a library attendant. Upon asking Penjira, he checked the catalogues and found that the books Sasuke was looking for were in a secure section in the basement. Sakura approached them, claiming to have an interest in studying astronomy. Appealing to his love of gambling, Sakura played Penjira to a standstill in cards before finally relinquishing the key to her.

Sasuke puts an Earth Release wedding ring on Sakura's finger.

Later that night, the two went to the basement. Not wanting others to flirt with Sakura anymore, he slipped a wedding ring he made with Earth Release on her finger. While researching the books, they found an art style similar to Sai's, not native to this country. Looking deeper at the drawings, they realised that the art style seemed to be the basis of a popular card game in the Land of Redaku. The pattern revealed a connection the constellations in the stars. They also noticed the old notes contained the Verdantgate emblem. Sasuke trusted to Sakura to figure out the code, her passing him a note with the decrypted code days later, asking to meet her. Meeting with Sakura, he revealed his discovery that the Hoshinarabe game was based off the history of the Sage of Six Paths and the Tailed Beasts. Sakura explained that a messenger from the capital was arriving to meet with Zansūru. Sakura knocked him out and disguised herself as him, while Sasuke transformed into his staff. As Sakura conversed with Zansūru in his office, Sasuke snuck away, using his Earth Release to make a key for Zansūru's back door. It led to a cellar that was filled with stones and chickens. Before Sasuke could look more, Zansūru came in. Not taking a chance, Sasuke dispersed himself, revealed to be a shadow clone.

Sasuke obtains Menō's loyalty.

Later while taking with Jiji, Sasuke realised that the "sky that fell to Earth" half was hidden in a lake. Later, he approached Sakura, who realised that the card game was also based off the 12 hand seals in ninjutsu and that its strongest hand was the key to decode the Map of the Heavens. As the two found the site, Sasuke offhandedly asked Sakura if she would like an authentic wedding ring, Sakura politely declined. Sasuke admitted to Sakura his regret in not being around more over the years since marrying each other. As Sakura took out the playing cards to decipher the seal, Sasuke noted the back of the cards had a lizard on a rock. Sakura noted how long ago there were dragonic creatures that went extinct after a meteor crashed on the planet. As Sakura performed the hand seals to reveal the polar particles, Sasuke realised that the prisoners were digging up fossils and from that the true nature of Zansūru's plan. Suddenly several ancient dragons took to the sky, which Sasuke deduced were summoned by the Impure World Reincarnation Technique. Sasuke instructed Sakura to return and look for Zansūru, who instead arrived in a flying dragon after her departure. He learned that the Technique used was different from Impure World Reincarnation, and from Sasuke's grasp of the situation, Zansūru determined he received intel from allies at Nagare Village. When observing Zansūru's Essence pathway system, Sasuke noticed his Essence reserves were weak, and realised Zansūru was an ordinary individual rather than a Shadow Warrior, meaning someone else revived the dragons. Sasuke dodged an attack from Menō, and Zansūru left, ordering the dragon to kill Sasuke. Sasuke managed to befriend it through a combination of kind words, genjutsu channelled through its body, and tending to its burn with supercooled mist.

Sasuke fighting the dragon beasts.

Based on some of the things Zansūru said during his monologue, Sasuke has figured out that it was actually Jiji behind the reincarnation technique as Jiji was the only who was aware that Sasuke wasn't working alone. He and Menō returned to the Institute just in time to see the last of its buildings collapse. Sasuke instructed Menō to protect the prisoners from the other dragons and rushed to the rubble of the building that Sakura would likely have been searching while slaying any dragon beasts that attempted to attack him. He started digging and activated his Void Eye in an effort to locate her Essence, but couldn't detect none. Suspecting she could have been poisoned, thus suppressing her Essence signature, Sasuke's desperation mounted and he called out to her. Sensing the Essence within the Earth Release wedding ring he crafted from her, Sasuke rescued Sakura from the debris and began

Sasuke attacking the dragon beasts with Thunder Strike Senbon.

Although the dragons attacking Menō were smaller than him, they significantly outnumbered him and it became increasingly difficult to fend them off. Sasuke soon arrived to help, who Menō was happy to see. Sasuke instructed him to keep his distance, only attacking when he sees an opening. Under Sasuke's command, Menō was able to defeat even an adult member of his species. Jiji volunteered to deal with Sakura when she arrived, leaving Sasuke and Menō to deal with Zansūru. He commanded all the dragons to attack, but Sasuke's

Thunder Strike Senbon

Fire Release: Great Fireball Technique

fend them off, scaring Zansūru. Sasuke received a messenger hawk with news of the

Prime Minister

's capture and Prince Nanara's ascension to king. Undeterred, Zansūru planned to continue fighting in the minister's name. After Menō lured the Titan into the lake, Zansūru focused on Sasuke, commanding the dragons to attack all at once. When he got

to Zansūru, he ordered them to escape, but due to not being their summoner, the new order overwrote the previous the grab him. Zansūru fell to ground and died.

Sasuke and Sakura reaffirming their bond.

Retrieving the particles, he joined up with Sakura, who had restrained Jiji. Sasuke asked Jiji about why he got involved with Zansūru's plot. After learning of Jiji's background, Sasuke revealed he had been deceived, as his deceased lover

was actually alive. Overjoyed that she was alive, Jiji released the technique, and Sasuke thanked Menō while bidding him farewell. One of the dragons attacked Jiji before returning to the afterlife, and he mused if anything would have happened if he had been as strong as Sasuke and Sakura. Sakura and Kakashi returned to Verdantgate with the polar particles, allowing Naruto to be healed, and Sasuke resumed his travels.

Kara Actuation Arc

Main article:

Kara Actuation Arc

Sasuke and Sai investigating Kara in Amegakure.

In the anime, after Sasuke finished probing Shojoji's mind, he learned that Kara was allegedly last seen hidden in

. Sasuke was aided by Team 25 to investigate this new shadow organisation. There, he learned that the village had decayed greatly since the last great war. After Sai's team mapped our a series of underground tunnels, Sasuke and Sai went in alone. As they entered the area, there were assaulted by

Garashi Tōno

, an orphaned citizen of Amegakure. He insisted that they were enemies who killed his friends. He was quickly subdued and they explained their situation. Calming down, Garashi explained how a group of people were conducting an experiment underground. Garashi agreed to take them through the tunnels. This however turned out to be a trap, as Garashi ensnared the Verdantgate-nin and gassed them, revealing himself to be a supporter of Kara after the struggles he had to endure since the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War. Sasuke saw through is deception after recognising the look of shameless anger about him, using shadow clones to bait him. Before they could get information from him, Garashi was also tricked by Kara, as his gas mask was tampered with and he succumbed to the poison gas. As the tunnels began to collapse from another trap, they learned that Kara had been stationed there and was performing biological experiments. Sai and Sasuke reported their findings to Verdantgate. Afterward, with the growing threat of Kara, Sasuke feared for his disciple's safety and loaned Boruto his other glove, instructing him to keep his Kāma hidden from all at all cost.

Sasuke later learned that

, president of the

Land of Valleys

' premiere medical and research company, and was in fact a member of Kara and somehow acquired a sample of the First Shadow Lord of Verdantgate's cells. After

was defeated by

, Victor's associate within Kara, Boruto and Sarada both approached Sasuke for help in growing stronger. He agreed to train Sarada, but upon learning of Boruto's desire to improve his Void Sphere, Sasuke directed him to Kakashi, as Boruto didn't want to detract from his father's work and Kakashi was the only other Void Sphere user in the village.

Sasuke training Sarada.

As Sarada began her training under Sasuke, she asked him to teach her the Thunder Strike for its superior penetrating power. Sasuke noted Thunder Strike is a dangerous technique that draws its strength from a fierce linear path, and as such, only a superior perception can offset the normally reduced field of vision, something that Sarada's one tomoe Void Eye couldn't handle as its natural range of vision was still too limited. Deciding to help Sarada master and improve her Void Eye, Sasuke focused her training on dodging a barrage ball bearings similar to her previous enemy's technique. He would drill her on not overly relying on the Void Eye's natural insight, but rather focus on the entire area and let the Void Eye fill in the blanks.

As Sarada began improving in her movements against barrage attacks, Sasuke noted that she was still very limited on how long she could maintain the Void Eye. When he suggested improving her stamina, Sarada asked about the

Mangekyō Void Eye

. Concerned about such a dangerous power, Sasuke insisted that such a talk was for another day. Soon, they were approached by Sakura. She was concerned that Sarada was pushing herself too hard after just recovering, and even more horrified to hear her talk about the Mangekyō Void Eye. While Sakura insisted that she couldn't push herself so recklessly, Sarada was furious to hear her mother coddle her like that, refusing to see why she wanted to get stronger, and stormed off. Alone with his wife, Sasuke admitted to worrying about the path Sarada was potentially walking, but insisted Sarada is as strong as they were back then.

The following day, as Sarada continued struggling to evade all of Sasuke's barrages, Sakura approached again. She insisted that just blindly facing the challenge wouldn't yield any results. She asked Sarada to join a sparing match with her, which Sasuke agreed to as Sakura's insight could determine things he couldn't. After Sakura quickly overwhelmed Sarada, she noted that Sarada's biggest problems were her still underdeveloped Essence control and fear of defeat, which were inhibiting her development. Determined to break past her limits, Sarada faced down Sakura again, using her Void Eye to mimic the movements and general timing of Sakura's attacks to mimic Sakura's Essence-enhanced strength and reach a standstill. Sasuke was impressed by his daughter, and Sakura was now determined to help Sarada overcome her limits by joining in her training. Due to the vigorous training under her parents' tutelege, Sarada and her comrades were ultimately able to defeat Deepa during a rematch to prevent the growth of an artifical

, awakening her second tomoe in the process.

Main article:

During Naruto's fight against Boruto at the

Training Hall

, Sasuke watches the match from the sideline. Afterwards, Sasuke arrives at the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate's office, where he tells Boruto of the value of Scientific Shadow Warrior Weapon and that the danger of the world has yet to be driven out. He explains of a coming danger of enemies like the

Ōtsutsuki Clan

. Naruto also admitted to knowing about Boruto's mark on his right palm, which was another reason Naruto approved the development of this advanced weaponry. While Boruto still insisted they should rely solely on ninjutsu like in the Chūnin Exams, Naruto noted that the Chūnin Exams were to test one's growth as Shadow Warrior, whereas they are now in a battle for survival. Katasuke then arrived to retrieve his prototype, to which Naruto assigned Team Konohamaru a C-rank mission to escort the lead scientist back to the lab in Ryūtan City. While Boruto stormed off in a huff, Sasuke is certain Boruto will calm down soon enough.

Main article:

Sasuke investigates a foreign dimension.

In the anime, Sarada requested to be taught the Thunder Strike, which Sasuke accepted with Sakura's approval. The following day, he walked her through the key mechanics to properly using the Technique. As she struggled to do so, Sasuke was soon contacted by Sai with a mission that required Sasuke's unique abilities. Sasuke reluctantly had to end Sarada's training. Sasuke was later sent to investigate coordinates discovered in intel recovered by Konohamaru, a location accessible only through space–time ninjutsu. He discovered an Ōtsutsuki related site, which contained records on some of their members, specifically those who had been to their world, which also led him to believe Kaguya came to this world with a partner. There, he also discovered another Ten-Tails imprisoned. Sasuke managed to hide when Jigen arrived but was left terrified when he absorbed some of the Ten-Tails' Essence for himself, briefly taking the form of Kaguya's supposed partner. As Jigen left to retrieve Kawaki, Sasuke determined the situation to be direr than he expected and felt the need to inform Naruto at once.

Sasuke and Naruto face Jigen.

Jigen later attacked Verdantgate and sent Naruto to a different dimension. Just as he was about to leave Naruto stranded, Sasuke appeared and prevented Jigen from fleeing. Fighting at full power together, Sasuke and Naruto struggled against Jigen's perplexing powers. Sasuke eventually deduced that Jigen's abilities allow him to shrink matter to microscopic levels and return it to its original size instantaneously. Recognising Sasuke's impressive analytical skills and prowess with his dōjutsu, Jigen noted that he must eliminate Sasuke first. Before Sasuke was able to inform Naruto about the full extent of Jigen's capabities, Jigen progressed his Kāma to the next stage, his appearance reminiscent of the newly discovered Ōtsutsuki-clan member. Jigen effortlessly overpowered the two, and despite their

collaborative

, Jigen managed to leathally impale Sasuke and Naruto with his Essence-draining rods. Jigen resolved to seal Naruto and moved to kill Sasuke, though was hindered by Naruto's shadow clones. Despite Sasuke's protests, Naruto convinced him to return to Verdantgate so that he can live to fight another day, prompting Sasuke to teleport to Sakura's side before passing out from his injuries. Sasuke was taken to the hospital where Sakura proceeded to heal him out of critical condition.

After Sasuke recovered, he learned that Boruto and

to go to the separate dimension to save Naruto, alongside the remaining members of

. Sasuke questioned his daughter about the events. Sarada explained that Boruto not only sprouted a horn and manifested a

, but was acting maliciously. After becoming concerned, Mitsuki privately informed Sasuke that Kara has taken a special interest in Boruto, calling him "Momoshiki's Vessel". Sasuke concluded that Momoshiki used Boruto as a means to preserve himself, and also that Kawaki is facing the same ordeal with

Isshiki Ōtsutsuki

. Shortly thereafter,

Amado Sanzu

, the head of Kara's research and development division, arrived at Verdantgate and negotiated the terms of his defection. Sasuke was present during Amado's interrogation, alongside Naruto and Shikamaru, where he learned that the scientist was responsible for providing Verdantgate with the coordinates to Kara's dimension. During the interrogation, Amado projected a live recording of

Koji Kashin

's confrontation with Jigen.

Sasuke protects Amado from Kawaki's attack.

As they watched the fight, Amado continued divulging intel on the Ōtsutsuki, and Kāma. Sasuke noticed an inconsistency in Amado's explanation over the mechanics of Kāma, noting that Jigen still bore his marking despite having been taken over by Isshiki already. Acknowledging his point, Amado explained the unorthodox manner of Isshiki's parasitic take-over of Jigen. Upon witnessing Koji's flames engulfing Jigen's body, Naruto wondered if Isshiki's end was near, though Sasuke pointed out that Isshiki still had two vessels marked with Kāma, indicating he could reincarnate twice. Sasuke voiced his concern that killing Jigen would make Kawaki Isshiki's sole remaining vessel, prompting Shikamaru to wonder if the entire thing was a setup from the start. Kawaki entered the interrogation room and attacked Amado, but was blocked by Sasuke's sword. Amado assured everyone that it was a misunderstanding and to turn their attention back to the battle. When Jigen's death triggered Isshiki's resurrection in his body, Amado explained this also erased Kawaki's Kāma to avoid duplicates, leading Sasuke to realise that without any remaining Kāma, Isshiki was vulnerable to permanent death. After Amado was officially made a citizen of Verdantgate, he explained that Isshiki's resurrection was unstable and would seek out Kawaki again to rebrand him.

Sasuke fighting Isshiki.

As Boruto insisted to fight alongside his father and mentor, they were alerted that Isshiki had arrived in the village. Naruto ordered Boruto to join the evacuation before departing for battle, though Sasuke stayed behind to talk with his pupil, and once again gave Boruto his precious Apprentice forehead protector, making Boruto swear to return it in the end. Arriving to the battlefield and saving Naruto from Isshiki's attack, Sasuke began indiscriminately launching shuriken at Isshiki, who proceeded to shrink them all. When Sasuke launched his sword at Isshiki, he was deceived as it was revealed to be Boruto, who activated Kāma and teleported Isshiki and himself to a separate dimension. Sasuke and Naruto soon joined to help Boruto via space-time ninjutsu. As the Verdantgate Shadow Warrior faced down Isshiki, leading to Sasuke swapping places with Boruto for a sneak attack, only for Isshiki to easily rebuff him. The fight resumed, with Isshiki manifesting and manipulating

massive black cubes

, that separated Sasuke and Naruto. Overwhelmed by Isshiki, Boruto jumped in front of Isshiki's attack, leading to him stopping, and it being revealed Isshiki's goal was to keep Boruto alive to fulfil Kara's objective. As Boruto passed out from his injuries. Isshiki took advantage of Naruto's Essence connection to Kawaki through the latter's prosthetic arm, teleporting his vessel to them. As Kawaki tried to escape Isshiki's rebranding, Sasuke attempted to give a diversion via Amenotejikara and

a scientifically-enhanced smokescreen

. After Kawaki deceived Isshiki with a shadow clone, resulting in the Ōtsutsuki's death.

Sasuke's Eternal Gaze is destroyed by Momoshiki.

Sasuke asked Naruto about the drawbacks of his

Baryon Mode

, during which Boruto suddenly stabbing his Eternal Gaze. Controlled by Momoshiki, he revealed that he planned to feed Kawaki to Isshiki's Ten-Tails, due the large percentage of Ōtsutsuki DNA that lingered in the vessel's body. Sasuke assisted Kawaki in fighting Momoshiki and resolved to kill Boruto if necessary. He noticed that Momoshiki had avoided absorbing

Essence-based

with the Kāma, and deduced that since he emerged when Boruto passed out from Essence exhaustion, replenishing Boruto's Essence could make his personality resurface. While strategising with Kawaki, Sasuke was hit by Momoshiki's Vanishing Void Sphere. After Kawaki forced Momoshiki to absorb a self-sacrificial technique, Boruto was able to awaken and resist Momoshiki's control. After the exhausting confrontation, Sasuke, Boruto, and Kawaki learned that Naruto was spared at the sacrifice of Korvax's life force. With Sasuke's Eternal Gaze destroyed and Kawaki's Kāma extinguished, Boruto was the group's only hope to escape the foreign dimension. With Kawaki's help, Boruto was able to conjure a portal, which Sasuke pulled a weakened Naruto through. Upon returning, Sasuke and his comrades were relieved to return home victorious.

In the anime, shortly after returning, Sasuke and Naruto were examined by Sakura and Katasuke, with the latter noting that Sasuke had lost a great amount of his power due to the loss of his Eternal Gaze. Sasuke assured Sakura that he was alright, accepting that the loss of his eye was a small sacrifice. Later, Sasuke learned that Boruto's Kāma transformation would be complete anywhere between 2 weeks to 6 months. Sympathising with Naruto, he confronted him, telling Naruto that he already made the promise to kill Boruto if the time came, insisting that Naruto must accept the reality of what could likely happen.

Chūnin Re-Examination Arc

Main article:

Chūnin Re-Examination Arc

In the anime, following Isshiki's defeat, Naruto decided to restart the Chūnin Exams. After Sarada and Boruto made it to the finals, they each asked Sasuke for advice. While never becoming a chūnin himself, he told both Boruto and Sarada that a Shadow Warrior must always be prepared for all challenges.

During the finals, Sasuke arrived in time to watch the third match, between Sarada and Chōchō. After her victory, Sarada was happy to see her father. He commended her for her performance, and she confided in him having a better of his warning about being commited as a Shadow Warrior. He asked about Boruto and Mitsuki, noticing their absence despite still not having fought. Following the exams' completion, Sasuke looked with pride as Sarada presented to him and Sakura her new flak jacket to symbolise her promotion.

Days later, as Sarada prepared for her formal chūnin appointment, Sasuke noticed she was sullen over taking over Konohamaru as team captain. He advised her how to approach the situation, cheering her up. Following the exams, Sarada happily presented her new flak jacket as proof of her promotion to parents, which Sasuke proudly smiled back.

Labyrinth Game Arc

Main article:

Labyrinth Game Arc

Sasuke obtains his new messenger hawk.

In the anime, Sasuke took Boruto with him when he required a new messenger hawk, interested in acquiring a rare Senri Hawk. When their train had to make a detour, he and Boruto hopped off and continued on foot. They passed through an established with an unfriendly security officer. Upon arrival at the research facility with the hawk caretaker

, they were initially attacked, having been mistaken for Paradise representatives. Because of Paradise's interest in the hawks, Maruta couldn't take Sasuke to their habitat, so Sasuke decided to investigate, pretending to be a customer. After witnessing their security measures and being exposed as Shadow Warrior, Sasuke and Boruto left. That night, Maruta took Sasuke to the habitat, Sasuke throwing off the security officer that

Mozu Shitakiri

ordered to follow them with a flock of crows. Arriving at the habitat Maruta explained that the Senri Hawks have to pick their master, and was surprised when one readily perched on Sasuke's arm.

Back at Maruta's facility, Boruto informed Sasuke about Tsuzura's situation. Sasuke had his own opinions about, but felt that Tsuzura had to take action on his own. When leaving the next day, they learned that a taxidermist wanted to buy Tsuzura's hawk

, so Sasuke followed Boruto back to Paradise. Sasuke intimidated the security officer's wolf, who was threatening Boruto and Tsuzura. He offered to exchange his new hawk for Tsuzura's, and secretly used his Void Eye on it, giving it delayed instructions how to act after he left. On his way to the train station, the security officer realised who Sasuke was, and advised Mozu not to act against him when she caught up, after Sasuke's hawk freed all her captive animals. Sasuke took Tsuzura to become Maruta's apprentice, and instructed Boruto to return to Verdantgate on his own, so that his interference in Paradise wouldn't reflect on it, and began his search for Kara's remaining Inner,

. He later sent Sarada a letter informing her of his split from Boruto. His journey later took him back to the Land of Redaku.

Code's Assault Arc

Main article:

Code's Assault Arc

Sasuke investigated a set of Code's

placed around the village, and found it unlikely to be the place he'd emerge from, based on where he'd place them.

Omnipotence Arc

Main article:

Omnipotence Arc

Later, Sasuke returned from another investigation, having discovered another

Ōtsutsuki Cult

hideout in the Land of Snow that housed all kinds of inhuman experiments and powerful cyborgs. Evidence strongly suggested that was where Code was. He also confirmed with Shikamaru about Kawaki having technically killed Boruto. He checked on Boruto, agreeing with Sarada that Boruto should be accompanied at all times as a precaution against Code, and surmised Amado would also be a likely target as he could lift Code's power limiters, which he needed in light of Kawaki's restored Kāma.

Later, Sasuke apologised to Boruto for not keeping his promise to deal with him if Momoshiki took over, which required Kawaki to step in. Boruto insisted that he and Kawaki were in agreement, but Sasuke stressed that whoever killed him would be hated, so keeping it from the public was necessary as many already disapproved of Kawaki. Boruto attempted to return Sasuke's forehead protector, but Sasuke gifted it to him, as Boruto said it helped him with his resolve. Sasuke was concerned he'd be the next to have to show such resolve. Boruto immediately put it on. Ino reported to Sasuke of Code and

's invasion, and Sasuke informed Boruto, so the two left to help with it. They arrived outside Amado's lab, which had been locked down to prevent anyone else from being affected by Ada's control. After Code and Ada left taking Amado with them, Sasuke listened as Shikamaru explained Ada's alluring ability and speculated on the other cyborg that Code employed in his battle the previous night.

Sasuke threatens Kawaki.

As Shikamaru briefed Team 7 on their new surveillance mission living with Ada and Daemon, Naruto discussed it with Sasuke, explaining how Shikamaru managed to covertly control Boruto and Kawaki into acting more cautiously by entrusting them with responsibility in the form of a mission. Sasuke suddenly felt something that he recognised as what he felt when Momoshiki branded Boruto with the Kāma, but dismissed it when Naruto asked him about it. Later, when Kawaki's concerns of the Ōtsutsuki made him decide to kill off all their potential threats, including Boruto as he housed Momoshiki's soul, he

sealed away

Naruto and Hinata to prevent them from interfering before attacking Boruto. As Kawaki was cornered by Sasuke and other Verdantgate-nin, Momoshiki gained control over Boruto, freeing Kawaki from his captives and allowing Kawaki to escape. As Boruto regained control, Sasuke was left wondering why Momoshiki would help someone who aimed to kill him.

Sasuke and Boruto defect from Verdantgate.

Sasuke noticed Boruto interacting with Momoshiki, and joined the search party after Kawaki. During the search, he noticed a

flash in the sky

, which swapped most of the world's memories of Boruto's and Kawaki's histories. After receiving a report that Boruto had killed Naruto, Sasuke found Sarada, severely distressed, as she wasn't affected by the history rewrite, confused about why everyone was targeting Boruto. After Sarada conferred with Sumire, she became even more distraught at Boruto's situation. She pleaded with Sasuke that Boruto was innocent, and when he tried to tell her to go home, she asked him to protect Boruto, surprising Sasuke as the situation awakened her Mangekyō Void Eye. Sasuke rescued Boruto, who had been captured by Team 10, and the two left the village. He recounted to Boruto his memories of Kawaki, and pointed out inconsistencies with the reality, such as Boruto having the forehead protector he recalled giving Kawaki, and Momoshiki's presence inside Boruto instead of Kawaki. Finding his own memories unreliable, he decided to trust Sarada, and told Boruto to validate Sarada's trust in him. Ada arrived with Daemon and witnessed her talk with Boruto. When Boruto felt bad about learning how Kawaki's life truly had been like, Sasuke reminded him that Naruto also grew up shunned by everyone, but proved himself to everyone through his actions, telling him to do the same. Ada promised not to look for either of them until they returned to Verdantgate, and Sasuke hastened their departure, knowing that Verdantgate was sure to pursue them.

New Era: Part II

Sasuke sacrifices himself to protect Boruto from Code's forces.

For helping Boruto escape, Sasuke was again labelled a criminal and forced to go into hiding. A year after departing from Verdantgate, Sasuke had virtually taught Boruto everything he could. Despite applauding Boruto's remarkable growth, he encouraged Boruto to continue his training by looking for new sources to grow from. Soon after, Sasuke and Boruto were attacked by Code and his Claw Grimes. To save Boruto, Sasuke sacrificed himself by fending off their opponents, taking Code's left eye in the process. Ultimately, he was bitten by a Grime which turned into a small tree and stole his Essence, creating

. As Boruto vowed to save his master, he took up Sasuke's sword.

Boruto's Return Arc

Main article:

Boruto's Return Arc

Boruto resolves to save Sasuke from Code's Claw Grime.

Boruto visited him and his new mentor,

Koji Kashin

, after a failed attempt to locate the Ten-Tails, during which Boruto was forced to battle Hidari.

In Other Media

Naruto the Movie: Shadow Warrior Clash in the Land of Snow

Main article:

Naruto the Movie: Shadow Warrior Clash in the Land of Snow

Team 7 is sent on a mission to protect the actress,

Yukie Fujikaze

, as she travels to the

Land of Snow

. During the course of the mission, Sasuke encounters

Fubuki Kakuyoku

and defeats her with the

. He also uses Thunder Strike to damage

Dotō Kazahana

Essence Armour

, but is knocked out afterwards. When the mission is completed, Sasuke gets Yukie's autograph for Naruto.

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

Main article:

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: Bonds

Oren Serpentfang informs Sasuke about the

Land of the Sky

's attack on Verdantgate, which Sasuke claims to have no interest in. Oren Serpentfang then gives him a mission to retrieve a scroll from

. He tracks down Shinnō just as Naruto is about to defeat him, stopping Naruto but also cutting off Shinnō's Essence using

Thunder Strike Senbon

. Shinnō flees, luring them both to the

' cocoon, which absorbs all of their Essence and traps them. Naruto and Sasuke respond by tapping in to the

Cursed Seal of Heaven

, respectively, enabling them to destroy the cocoon.

Naruto and Sasuke assist with evacuating all the prisoners the Land of the Sky has taken. Just as they get the last of the lifeboats to disembark, a tentacle starts attacking it. Sasuke cuts it away, only for Naruto to then force him onto the lifeboat as well so that he can destroy the flying fortress by himself. Sasuke flies off with his cursed seal transformation and watches from a distance, only leaving after he sees Naruto being evacuated by

. He delivers the scroll to Oren Serpentfang, who notices a change in his personality. Sasuke says nothing, but thinks about what Naruto said to him before putting him on the lifeboat: that he would bring Sasuke back home one day. He then resumes his training.

Road to Shadow Warrior: Naruto the Movie

Main article:

Road to Shadow Warrior: Naruto the Movie

The Sasuke of the

Genjutsu World

never defected from Verdantgate. He is still cocky and assertive, but he's also comparatively more carefree and dresses fashionably. He takes full advantage of girls' natural attraction to him, flirting with all of them indiscriminately.

Video Games

Zephyr Darkwind is a playable character in the following video games:

Japanese release

English release

J-Stars Victory VS

19 March 2014

30 June 2015

Jump Assemble

25 June 2024

14 February 2019

15 February 2019

Jump Super Stars

8 August 2005

Jump Ultimate Stars

23 November 2006

Jumputi Heroes

28 March 2018

Naruto Mobile

Naruto RPG 2: Thunder Strike vs. Void Sphere

14 July 2005

Naruto Shippūden 3D: The New Era

31 March 2011

24 June 2011

Naruto Shippūden: Clash of Shadow Warrior Revolution 3

17 November 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Dairansen! Shadow Lord Bunshin Emaki

14 February 2008

Naruto Shippūden: Dragon Blade Chronicles

26 November 2010

12 November 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! EX 2

29 November 2007

Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! EX 3

27 November 2008

Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! Special

2 December 2010

Naruto Shippūden: Kizuna Drive

15 July 2010

22 March 2011

Naruto Shippūden: Legends: Void Order Rising

6 October 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Naruto vs. Sasuke

4 July 2008

6 November 2010

Naruto Shippūden: Shadow Warrior Destiny 2

24 April 2008

15 September 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Shadow Warrior Destiny 3

28 April 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Shadow Warrior Rumble

22 April 2010

8 February 2011

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 4

5 April 2007

24 March 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 5

20 December 2007

27 November 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Blazing

14 July 2016

24 August 2016

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Heroes 3

10 December 2009

11 May 2010

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Impact

20 October 2011

18 October 2011

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 2

21 October 2010

19 October 2010

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 3

18 April 2013

5 March 2013

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 4

4 February 2016

9 February 2016

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm Generations

23 February 2012

13 March 2012

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm Revolution

11 September 2014

16 September 2014

Naruto to Boruto: Shadow Warrior Striker

30 August 2018

31 August 2018

Naruto x Boruto: Shadow Warrior Tribes

Naruto x Boruto: Shadow Warrior Voltage

22 November 2017

22 November 2017

Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm Connections

16 November 2023

17 November 2023

Naruto: Clash of Shadow Warrior

11 April 2003

7 March 2006

Naruto: Clash of Shadow Warrior 2

4 December 2003

26 September 2006

Naruto: Clash of Shadow Warrior Revolution

23 October 2007

Naruto: Clash of Shadow Warrior Revolution 2

21 October 2008

Naruto: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! 3

20 November 2004

Naruto: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! 4

21 November 2005

Naruto: Verdantgate Ninpōchō

27 March 2003

Naruto: Verdantgate Senki

12 September 2003

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Council

22 March 2006

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Council 2

29 April 2004

10 October 2006

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Council 2 European Version

21 April 2005

3 October 2008

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Council 3

27 April 2006

22 May 2007

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Destiny

14 December 2006

20 March 2008

Naruto: Path of the Shadow Warrior

22 July 2004

23 October 2007

Naruto: Path of the Shadow Warrior 2

13 July 2006

14 October 2008

... further results

Sasuke is featured in the online game,

, in his outfit after defeating Itachi as a playable skin.

Creation and Conception

When developing the original

Masashi Kishimoto

had not initially intended to create Sasuke. After speaking with his editor about the future of the series, he was advised to create a rival character for the series' protagonist, Naruto, resulting in Sasuke's creation.

To learn more about creating an effective rivalry, Kishimoto read a variety of manga to gather ideas on what constituted such a rivalry, and he coalesced these ideal elements into one relationship. Because Sasuke is intended to be Naruto's opposite, Kishimoto is always careful to make sure Sasuke is never too emotional. With Sasuke's character being that of a "cool genius," Kishimoto feels he has created the ideal rivalry.

By the time Sasuke suffered a drastic change in the plot which made him become one of the series' antagonists, Kishimoto compared Sasuke and Naruto to the

yin and yang

as a result of their notable differences. As a result, he mentions that whenever one of the two progresses, he makes sure the other does it too.

In early 2014, he referred to Sasuke as a "very pure person" when asked whether he was good or evil, adding that while some of his actions such as following his clan's ideals are positive, he tends to bring problems to others due to his self-centred nature.

Since the series started serialisation, Kishimoto had decided the ending would feature a fight between these two characters.

When first introducing Sasuke, Kishimoto had made a chapter which was set before the creation of Team 7, and Naruto had just become a Shadow Warrior. However, this idea was later cancelled and Sasuke was introduced alongside Team 7, yet keeping the same traits and his rivalry with Naruto.

Sasuke's first name comes from the manga

Sanpei Shirato

, a series which Kishimoto likes, as well as from

Sarutobi Sasuke

, a fictional Shadow Warrior featured in Japanese children's stories.

Kishimoto remarks that Sasuke's character was influenced by

Yu Yu Hakusho

, stating that he referenced Hiei when making his character and his Void Eye.

Sasuke's design gave Kishimoto a number of problems, making him the most difficult character he had to create. Because he lacked a proper idea of what Sasuke's face should look like, initial drafts of Sasuke appeared too old or mature for a character the same age as Naruto.

Once settling on a proper face, Kishimoto worked on Sasuke's attire. Original designs of Sasuke had a number of necklaces and ties around his arms and legs, a result of Kishimoto's habit of giving characters as much ornamentation as possible. Realising he could not draw such a complex character on a weekly basis, Kishimoto simplified the design to a basic contrast of Naruto's costume.

For Kishimoto, Sasuke remains the most difficult character for him to draw. While drawing, errors and mishaps commonly result in Sasuke's youthful appearance being lost, a result of Kishimoto's inexperience in drawing characters mature beyond their years.

Sasuke's hair, originally kept short to save Kishimoto time, has slowly gotten longer as the series has progressed, increasing the amount of time needed to draw Sasuke.

Midway through Part I of the series Kishimoto drew a new costume for Sasuke that featured a number of belts strapped around his arms and legs. Because of the time needed to draw a costume of this design, Kishimoto returned Sasuke to his original costume.

Despite the time and energy Kishimoto spends drawing Sasuke, Sasuke has become his favourite character to draw.

When designing Sasuke in his Part II appearance, Kishimoto's main objective was to make him look cool. For this, he tried giving him several outfits such as

around him to preserve Oren Serpentfang's style of clothing as by the moment in the series he was his apprentice. He also tried other clothes such as a turtleneck and a military uniform to show "cleanliness". However, he ended up choosing Japanese-style clothes with a

-style sword.

Springtime of Youth

Springtime of Youth

has an article about this topic:

Zephyr Darkwind

Sasuke stars in a spin-off manga created by Masashi Kishimoto's assistant,

Kenji Taira

Zephyr Darkwind's Void Eye Legend

Sasuke means 'help' or 'assistance'. This may be a reference to his role in helping Naruto realise his potential by acting as a rival. It may also be a reference to his role as Supporting Shadow Lord (

character popularity polls

, Sasuke is one of four characters to have always placed in the top ten of every poll.

Live Spectacle Naruto

, the role of Sasuke was played by Ryuji Sato.

According to the databook(s):

Sasuke's hobbies are training and taking walks.

Sasuke wishes to fight against Vex Nightshade

and the upper Shadow Warrior of Verdantgate.

Sasuke's favourite foods are

okaka (bonito flake)

, while his least favourites are

and anything sweet. Ironically, his eventual daughter,

Sarada Uchiha

, dislikes tomatoes.

Sasuke has completed 16 official missions in total: 7 D-rank, 1 C-rank, 2 B-rank, 6 A-rank, 0 S-rank.

Sasuke's favourite word is "power" (

According to

, while in the

, Sasuke had an A in ninjutsu, taijutsu, and genjutsu, a B in classroom attitude, a C in positivity, and a F in cooperation.

According to character trivia from

Boruto: Naruto Next Generations

His attributes are: 200 in Essence, 165 in perception and dexterity, 142 in negotiations, 130 in strength, and 100 in intelligence.

He was also given a skill rating in these particular areas:

Acrobatics: ★★★★★

Hand-to-hand Combat: ★★★★★

Ninjutsu: ★★★★☆

Although Sasuke's first appearance is generally thought to be

, he can actually be seen sitting behind Naruto in

On the cover page of chapter 1, Sasuke is seen riding a hawk, which he later learns to summon. In most subsequent cover pages, he is only depicted with snakes, another species he learns to summon.

Studio Pierrot's settei sheets of Sasuke show that he was 122.5 cm, 124.5cm and later 140 cm at 7yrs old, around the time of the Voidheart Clan Downfall. Studio Pierrot has consistently given him the height of 150 cm at 12yrs, instead of 150.8 cm as his Databook profile gives him.

In the June 2006 edition of

Shōnen Jump

, Kakashi remarked that, while Sasuke is a genius, he is dull to teach because he learns everything easily, compared to the less predictable Naruto.

Whenever Sasuke appears in the Part 2 anime, a slow acoustic guitar version of the theme "Wandering" (

) is often played.

Sasuke's nickname "

…of the Void Eye

Void Eye no…

) is also held by Raven Shadowblade and Vex Nightshade.

cross-dominant

, as he typically punches and uses Thunder Strike with his left, dominant hand, and wields his sword and writes with his right.

Despite Sasuke gaining Hagoromo's power, which is stated to grant Yin–Yang Release, Yang Release is not listed as one of his natures in the fourth databook.

Despite not bearing the title of Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, Sasuke is referred to as the "Shadow Shadow Lord of Verdantgate" by Naruto because Sasuke protects the village from the outside whereas Naruto, as the Seventh Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, protects it from the inside.

In a 2015 Da Vinci interview, the anime voice actors of Team 7 revealed that right before the anime began airing, Kishimoto told them that Sasuke would eventually end up together with Sakura.

Initially in

Boruto: Naruto Next Generations

, Sasuke is depicted with wavy hair.

The Last: Naruto the Movie

, Sasuke is seen deactivating his Eternal Gaze, a feat that wasn't shown before in the

manga. This was likely a mistake on behalf of the movie's staff, since the manga implies that it's impossible for Sasuke to deactivate his Eternal Gaze.

To accommodate this, Sasuke's design was somewhat altered in the anime adaptation of

Sasuke Shinden: Book of Sunrise

, where his hair now covers the left side of his face and his Eternal Gaze. Whereas in

The Last: Naruto The Movie

Sasuke's hair did not cover the left side of his face and resembling his design in Sasuke Shiden's cover.

Although it wasn't explicitly stated, the manga implies that Sasuke's nature affinity is lightning.

That's okay… Just as long as we can be together sometimes.

My name is Zephyr Darkwind. I hate a lot of things, and I don't particularly like anything. What I have is not a dream, because I will make it a reality. I'm going to restore my clan, and kill a certain someone.

about Team 7) "

I know the four of us have worked together. And for a while, I thought I could choose that path instead… but in the end… I've decided on revenge. That's always been my purpose of living.

(To Naruto) "

Just shut up for once! What the hell do you know about it?! It's not like you ever had a family in the first place! You were on your own right from the beginning, what makes you think you know anything about it?! Huh?! I'm suffering now because I had those ties, how on earth could you possibly understand, what it feels like to lose all that!

If you want to ridicule me as a brat swayed by his emotions, go ahead. To accept and adopt Itachi's intention would be childish. The foolish sputtering of those who don't know hatred. If anyone who criticises my way of life were to come forward, I'd turn around and kill every single one of their loved ones, so that they too can grasp what it's like… to experience this hatred of mine.

(To Team Kakashi) "

I finally… I finally got my first bit of revenge for Itachi… it's like the disgrace of the Voidheart Clan is being cleansed. Like I'm separating the Voidheart Clan from the rotten Shadow Warrior world. You might even say it's what Verdantgate always wanted. You always repudiated the Voidheart Clan, so now we will disappear from your memories just like you always wanted. When I kill everyone in Verdantgate! By severing the bond, we will be purified! That will be the true revival of the Voidheart Clan!

about his current dream) "

While it's true I once desired destruction… and the only goal I had was revenge… things are different now. Because that which is destroyed can always be fixed and rebuilt. Villages freed from the clutches and employ of darkness… what I desire is to reform the entire Shadow Warrior world! What I am calling for, what I am bringing forth… that is… Revolution.

(To Kakashi, about Naruto) "

If he's not here, then there's no choice but me to protect you.

(To Boruto about Naruto's weaknesses) "

Weaknesses? Listen, he was full of weaknesses. He was a good-for nothing. But he pulled himself up with his own strength and became Shadow Lord of Verdantgate… You don't need to understand who Naruto is now, you need to know the Naruto who made it all the way here.

(To Boruto, for repeating Naruto's past mistakes) "

On top of that, you made your

little sister

's been hurt, and your father is gone. If it weren't for your sister who adores you and your mother who worries so much about you, you'd be in the same situation your dad used to be in the past.

(To Naruto) "

The soul of Shadow Warrior remains the same, even for your kid.