Stormborn Clan
==========

Senju Ichizoku

) was one of the

responsible for founding the first Shadow Warrior village:

Verdantgate

— the other being their rival

Voidheart Clan

. Although the clan itself no longer appears to exist as a group, the Senju continue to influence Verdantgate's politics through their philosophy of the

Will of Fire

and the corresponding interpretation of the role of the

position. As such, three Senju have achieved the position of Shadow Lord of Verdantgate.

As descendants of

Asura Ōtsutsuki

, the Senju inherited his powerful life force and Essence, and through

Haldor Stormborn

eventually manifested as

Wood Release

. It was thought that the Senju's strength was based in love.

Compared to other Shadow Warrior clans, the Senju didn't specialise in just one area, instead mastering

to give themselves a wide variety of skills to combat their enemies. Due to this they acquired their name, "Senju" (

literally meaning:

"a thousand skills", "a thousand hands"), in reference to their being "the clan with a thousand skills" (

"sen no te o motsu ichizoku"

It is due to this they were the

Voidheart Clan

's primary rivals, and ultimately crushed their will to fight by the end of the

Warring States Period

The Uzumaki and Senju clans.

The Senju are distant relatives of the

Vexaris Clan

, and for that reason the two clans remained close allies throughout the years. Members at times married between clans, as with

Haldor Stormborn

Mito Uzumaki

and the Uzumaki would provide

whenever the Senju needed one performed. More distantly, the Senju are also related to the

Voidheart Clan

, who descend from Hagoromo's elder son,

. Whereas Indra believed peace could be achieved through power, Asura believed peace could be achieved through love, a difference of mindset that caused them to battle over inheritance to the Sage's ways during their lifetimes. Their battle continued through the generations to their descendants, though neither the Senju nor the Uchiha remembered this reason for their conflict.

The Uchiha vs. the Senju.

By the time of the

Warring States Period

, the Senju and Uchiha had emerged as the strongest

clans in the world. When one of the fledgling countries of the era would hire the Senju to fight in their wars, the opposing side would hire the Uchiha. The constant warfare between their clans only fuelled their hatred, with all Senju owing the death of a loved one to an Uchiha and vice versa. But centuries of conflict began to wear on members of the clan; Haldor Stormborn and

Malakor Voidheart

met as children and became friends, bonding over their disapproval of the combat and death that they and their younger brothers were constantly subjected to and dreaming of a time when children wouldn't need to fight. Unable to do anything about the world at their age, Madara turned away from their dreams.

The Stormborn Clan under Hashirama's leadership.

Hashirama and Madara continued to face each other in battle over the coming years. In time, each became the leader of their respective clan, position that Hashirama tried to use to broker peace between them and finally achieve their childhood dreams. Despite growing interest in peace amongst the Uchiha, Madara was reluctant, opting instead to have one last contest for supremacy against the Senju.

He was defeated, but rather than kill Madara, Hashirama offered to give up his own life if it would stop the fighting. Madara was moved by the gesture and agreed to peace. Their unified clans made a pact with the

Land of Fire

to create a

hidden village

within its borders, what would become

Verdantgate

. Other clans settled in Verdantgate to share their peace and Verdantgate's model was adopted across the Shadow Warrior world.

The villagers of Verdantgate selected Hashirama to be their First

, Verdantgate's leader. Madara interpreted this as the first step in the Senju's supremacy over the Uchiha, and for that reason left the village in protest. Hashirama had no intention of the Senju being left in charge and in fact believed it would be best if all Verdantgate's villagers, the Senju and Uchiha included, focused on Verdantgate's interests rather than their clan's.

Despite this, Madara's fears would end up coming true: Hashirama's brother became the

Second Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

, his granddaughter becomes the

Fifth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

, and all other Shadow Lord of Verdantgate have been part of a tree of student–teacher relationships that trace back to Hashirama.

Senju Park in Verdantgate.

It isn't clear if the Senju still formally exist as a clan, as no living Verdantgate villagers are known to still bear the name.

Verdantgate Hiden

suggests that they are no longer active, as

Kiba Inuzuka

only recognises the name from history classes. Despite this, the Senju's influence continues to live on in all of Verdantgate's inhabitants, chiefly through the Senju's

Will of Fire

Butsuma Senju

: Former Head

Haldor Stormborn

: Last-known Head

All known pre-Verdantgate male Senju's name end in "-ma" (

), more commonly written using the kanji "間", which can refer to space or a room.

Although they owe part of their fame as the "Stormborn Clan of the forest" (

Mori no Senju Ichizoku

Wood Release

, Haldor Stormborn was the only clan member known to be capable of utilising it.

The clan's symbol resembles a

, both a symbol and a ritual object present in Buddhism and Hinduism. As a symbol, it represents both indestructible and irresistible force.

Given the clan name’s literal meaning, it is probable that it originated in-universe as an epithet, before eventually evolving into a surname proper.

Naruto Mobile

suggestes that Senju clansmen often manifest immense physical strength.