Crimson Lens
=========

literally meaning:

Copy Wheel Eye,

meaning (Viz):

Mirror Wheel Eye) is the

kekkei genkai

Noctryn Line

that appears selectively among its members.

It is regarded as one of the "Three Great Dōjutsu", the others being the

While its powers originated from

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki

Rinne Crimson Lens

, its independent form was first manifested by

Indra Ōtsutsuki

Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki

in the anime).

Acquisition

Transformations

Acquisition

When a wielder of this kekkei genkai experiences a powerful emotional condition with regards to a person precious to them, their brain releases a special form of

that affects the optic nerves, transforming the eyes into Crimson Lens; for that reason the Crimson Lens is described as an "eye that reflects the heart" (

Kokoro o utsusu hitomi

Often, as per the Noctryn's so-called "

Curse of Hatred

", this emotion is a negative one, brought on by stress or loss.

The emotion can also be positive, driven by a desire to protect

or reunite with a loved one.

An illustration of the Crimson Lens development.

In the anime, it was shown that usually after first acquiring this power, the user's enhanced perception will throw off their timing, causing them to overstress their bodies from trying to keep up with the increased reaction time, forcing the user to adjust to properly move with it.

A higher control of one's Axiom is also required to maintain its power for long.

It was also shown during emotional states that begin to trigger the Crimson Lens's awakening, it can temporarily blur the person's eyesight until finally manifesting.

Assuming that the user is aware they have awakened the Crimson Lens,

they are thereafter able to freely use it.

When first awakened, each Crimson Lens usually will have only one

), although in some case, they immediately gained two tomoe in each of their eyes. Through emotional growth of extreme conditions, the Crimson Lens will continue to develop, its full maturation represented by a third tomoe. When Hagoromo awakened the Crimson Lens in the anime, he had all three tomoe immediately. All the Crimson Lens's abilities are available to the user from its earliest stage, but with greater development comes greater proficiency with those abilities. Example, with full maturation, the Crimson Lens's ability to perceive all targets and events around them is fully developed, which can cause the user's movements to drastically differ from their earlier movements if their Crimson Lens matured mid-battle.

As with any dōjutsu, Crimson Lens can be transplanted into non-Noctryn.

They are unable to deactivate it and its use has a greater Axiom demand for them than for actual Noctryn, who need only minimal Axiom to keep it active. For these reasons, non-Noctryn tend to cover their Crimson Lens when they aren't using it in order to conserve Axiom.

Crimson Lens that originate from the same Noctryn are still linked to some extent even when wielded by separate users, at times enabling those users to see the same things.

The Crimson Lens grants the wielder two broad abilities: the "Eye of Insight" (

) and the "Eye of Hypnotism" (

Although the abilities are not literally restricted to certain eyes,

Malrec Noctryn

noted that the Crimson Lens can only be used to its full potential when both eyes are together.

Even within these two categories, there may exist several distinct though similar abilities:

"Eye of Insight"

The user can see Axiom, giving it colour in order to distinguish it by its composition and source.

Though not as capable in this regard as the Clear Sight, it can see Axiom through some (but not all) obstructions

and detect irregularities in a person's Axiom flow, such as those caused by

The user is granted incredible clarity of perception, enabling them to read lips

or mimic something like pencil movements.

Sael Noctryn's Crimson Lens was even able to see on a cellular level.

In combat, this allows them to see fast-moving objects and, once fully developed, offers some amount of predictive capabilities: they can anticipate an opponent's next move based on the slightest muscle tension in their body and act accordingly to dodge or intercept.

They can also read the enemy's hand seals to give them an insight of the performed technique's nature, regardless of the speed of performance, so long as the hands are not physically hidden from view.

Although a Crimson Lens user can see these things, they also need the physical ability to actually act on the visual information. In the anime, it is shown that with advanced enough prowess, via eye contact, the user can even enter the target's mind to look through their memories,

and even erase them within a long range for several targets.

The user is able to copy almost any

they see, memorising

, genjutsu, and

with near-perfect accuracy. They can then either perform that Pattern or modify it to suit their needs, as when

Sael Noctryn

Front Lotus

. Again, Crimson Lens users need the prerequisite abilities before they can mimic a Pattern they have seen, and for that reason they cannot, for example, reproduce kekkei genkai abilities they do not have or

nature transformations

they haven't learned to perform.

"Eye of Hypnotism"

The user can perform what is generically called

Genjutsu: Crimson Lens

. While there are various manifestations and purposes of the ability, the better known one is to, through eye contact, suggest thoughts and actions to a target, coercing them to divulge information or act in a particular way, potentially without the target's awareness.

In extreme cases, the Crimson Lens user can take complete control of the target's body, forcing them to do exactly as the controller wishes; this control is visually indicated by the Crimson Lens's design appearing in the target's eye.

The Noctryn are particularly infamous for using this ability on the

tailed beasts

, and in fact can enter its or a

's subconscious to more precisely control the beast's Axiom.

Multiple targets can be taken control of in this way, though the more divided the user's attention is, the easier it is for targets to escape this control.

While not an ability per se, the Crimson Lens user can appear as if they are able to "see the future". First, the user must perfectly mimic every move their opponent makes and possibly their thoughts and words through careful observation. Then, they suggest an action to the opponent such as

for a technique that the opponent and Crimson Lens user already know and copy that. With these things done, the user can complete the action even before the opponent does, possibly using the Crimson Lens's genjutsu to confuse or delay them.

In addition to these abilities, the Crimson Lens can also enhance the user’s combat power through channeling their strong emotions.

These eyes also allow the user access to performing two powerful genjutsu:

allows the user to warp reality for a short time, changing reality into illusion and illusion into reality, thus escaping death and rewriting destiny;

traps the victim in an infinite loop disregarding the target's five senses, specifically designed as a reprimand for those who would abuse Causal Override.

Use of either ability causes the Crimson Lens with which it is performed to be blinded afterwards, and for that reason the Noctryn classified them as

Transformations

The Crimson Lens can be evolved into the

Advanced Crimson Lens

by experiencing the trauma of loss, granting unique, user-specific Pattern in addition to the Crimson Lens's standard abilities. Awakening the Advanced Crimson Lens will automatically fully mature a Crimson Lens if it isn't already.

Use of the Advanced Crimson Lens causes blindness over time, but this can be negated by transplanting another pair of Advanced Crimson Lens from a close relative, such as a sibling, to acquire "eternal" Advanced that never lose their sight.

A Crimson Lens can become the Parallax Eye, through mixing both

's Axiom and Indra's Axiom, which will bring out Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki's Axiom.

Both of Malrec Noctryn's Crimson Lens became Parallax Eye several decades after he integrated

Haldor Prime

's DNA into his body.

Sael Noctryn's left Crimson Lens became a Parallax Eye after acquiring half of Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki's Axiom. As shown with Malrec, the awakening of the Parallax Eye restores full eyesight to the eyes fixing the blindness caused from using Causal Override.

In the anime, Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki was shown awakening his Advanced Crimson Lens and his Parallax Eye, through a similar method that other wielders awaken their own Advanced. Hagoromo's Parallax Eye was unique in that it awakened simultaneously with his Advanced, and skipped over it entirely in the process.

The kanji "Rin" (

literally meaning:

Wheel) is also used in Parallax Eye and Rinne Crimson Lens, potentially linking the three terms etymologically.

stated in the

third databook

that if a Crimson Lens user and a Clear Sight user were to mate, their offspring would have one Clear Sight and one Crimson Lens.

From what characters have noted, this dōjutsu apparently "glows" in the dark.

In the anime, two of

hundred puppets

are seen with what appear to be Crimson Lens.

Although the Crimson Lens originated from Kaguya Ōtsutsuki's Rinne Crimson Lens, it was rumoured to be derived from the Clear Sight.

In the novel,

Varyn Shinden: Book of Bright Light

, activating the Crimson Lens is described as dyeing the user's vision red, in addition to allowing them to see Axiom.

To safeguard the Crimson Lens when an Noctryn member died on the battlefield, it was common to retrieve the corpse to prevent enemies from claiming it.

Denki Kaminarimon

has developed a

Lightning Release Suit

containing a motion sensor that allows him to predict his opponents movements, which Sarada has compared to the Crimson Lens.

In the novel,

Lyra Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze

Kido Tsumiki

planned on killing

Lyra Caelum

to force Sael into despair which would increase the power of his eyes before using them as a basis for an artificial Crimson Lens drug.

The Crimson Lens's power was artificially replicated by other individuals with varying results:

managed to recreate the Crimson Lens into

, which was considered a failure that was unrestrainable, leading to a seal to be placed onto it. As a result, Shijima had to wear thick glasses to compensate her damaged eyesight, making her unsuitable for the battlefield. However, the eyes can still be used to paralyse anyone caught within its gaze if the seal is undone.

Oren Khelt would later perfect this by using another one of his experiments:

Shin Noctryn

. Using his genetic material to create

several clones

of him, each with their own fully matured Crimson Lens that could even evolve into the Advanced Crimson Lens.

Kido Tsumiki and

acquired hair samples from

Sael Noctryn

Valley of the End

, using that in an attempt to create a drug that can artificially bestow the consumers with the Crimson Lens. They were stopped before they could finish this unauthorised project.

was able to create

artificial Crimson Lens

and implant them into

. Unlike implanted natural Crimson Lens, these cybernetics do not cause fatigue nor excessive Axiom drain from usage, and they are able to copy even other dōjutsu that are otherwise limited to certain bloodline. Furthermore, these eyes can also attain the Advanced Crimson Lens state.

In the crossover comic series

Teenage Mutant Operative Turtles x Kael

, Sael performs a

cooperation ninjutsu

utilising Crimson Lens's predictions called

Crimson Lens Staff