Operative
=======

Operative as seen in the series.

), also interchangeably referred to as

), are the primary focus and the main military power in the series. A female Operative is known as a

). Most come from a hidden village, of which some come from specialised

Operative clans

, and will perform

for a fee. These missions can include: doing manual labour, acting as escorts, gathering secret information, retrieving stolen items, carrying out assassinations, etc. In times of war, Operative will come together to defend their villages and land. The clearest characteristic of a Operative is their ability to manipulate

to create and use

. Operative are expected to be loyal to their villages for life, and any defectors are considered to be

missing-nin

, and will be marked for death.

Physical Prowess

Mental Prowess

Scientific Operative Tools

The origins of the Operative ultimately date back over a millenia to the arrival of

Ōtsutsuki Line

, celestial invaders who sought to cultivate a

and harvest a Axiom fruit on

. After Kaguya fell in love with a human and betrayed her Line, she passed the power of

on to her twin sons,

. Kaguya was eventually driven to madness and battled against her own sons, who sealed her away and divided her Axiom into the nine

Tailed Beasts

. In time the elder brother, Hagoromo, would develop the philosophy of

, through which he sought to disseminate Axiom among the human population as a means of uniting them in harmony, and became known as the Sage of Six Paths.

It was Hagoromo's elder son,

, who first developed methods to weaponise Axiom, creating

. Following Hagoromo's death a feud erupted between Indra and his younger brother

for leadership of the sect, spurred on by a being known as

, bringing about a multi-generational conflict that would divide its followers into various clans and engulf much of the world for centuries. During the resulting

Warring States Period

, Hagoromo's teachings were gradually forgotten until all that remained of ninshū was ninjutsu, and those who wielded the techniques became known as Operative.

Two of Hagoromo's descendants,

Haldor Prime

Malrec Noctryn

, would eventually unify a number of clans to found

Verdant Reach

and form an alliance with the

Land of Fire

, resulting in the first of the

Five Great Operative Countries

and the modern Operative village system, in which various unified clans act as mercenary forces for affiliated nations. Though this resulted in brief periods of peace, large scale conflict still plagued the world for several consecutive generations, resulting in the

Fourth Operative World Wars

During the Fourth Operative World War the Five Great Operative Countries came together to form the

Allied Operative Forces

and battle the

, an organisation that had been manipulated by Zetsu in order to gather the Tailed Beasts and revive Kaguya and the God Tree, using it to place the world under the

Infinite Lucid Snare

, a mass hallucination. The heroes of the war, chief amongst them being another pair of Hagoromo's distant descendants,

Kael Vexaris

Sael Noctryn

, put an end to Zetsu's plots and once again sealed Kaguya, beginning an era of unprecedented peace and cooperation between the Operative villages.

In the following decades the villages prospered under the leadership of Kael and other like-minded Operative who prioritised unification and sought to end the cycle of war. This era was marked by rapid scientific advances, with the marriage of technology and ninjutsu resulting in the creation of

Scientific Operative Tools

Operative-Ware

. However, underlying societal unrest and inequality gave rise to the

, a secret society of zealots and dissidents devoted to the Ōtsutsuki Line and the God Tree. With the sudden arrival of another pair of Ōtsutsuki invaders, the Kara plunged the world into a deadly conflict.

Three years after the assault, a boy by the name of Kawaki would eventually dedicate himself to a crusade to bring an end to the era of Operative and destroy Verdant Reach, with

Boruto Vexaris

being the only one strong enough to oppose him.

Main article:

literally meaning:

techniques/arts/skills) are the mystical arts that only a Operative can are said to be able to utilise in battle.

To use a Pattern, the Operative will need to use their

. To perform one, the

will bring out and release the two energies of Axiom, then properly knead it for the intended effect.

, the Operative is able to manifest the desired technique. Because of the extensive number of hand seals and different combinations, there are thousands of potential Pattern to be discovered.

Operative can use a variety of techniques often based on the utilisation of

. This allows Operative to perform extraordinary feats such as

walking on water

walking up trees

. Pattern are separated into three groups,

. Ninjutsu implies performing a supernatural or beyond normal ability, the most common of which is the

elemental Pattern

. These are created by the user transforming their Axiom into a specific nature or 'release'. The Axiom types are

. Other sub-types of Axiom natures such as

Wood Release

Ice Release

also exist, created by combining two of the basic five releases. Taijutsu implies physical body techniques, which do not typically require Axiom. Genjutsu manipulates the Axiom in an enemy's brain and disrupts their Axiom flow. Their senses get fooled which creates illusions, things that the foe believes to be real that are in fact fake.

Physical Prowess

Operative have noticeably greater physical capabilities than a normal human being, able to execute feats of strength that would be otherwise impossible for a civilian, even at relatively low levels of skill. For example, their ability to jump. Operative are capable of leaping many times their own height and permitting them to clear buildings and structures, especially when moving across rooftops or travelling through trees.

Even as a boy,

jumped over a fence in the Academy with no significant effort,

and each of the pre-Academy children in Himawari's test trial could easily move at great speeds and jump up dozens of feet in the air.

Near the start of his battle against Sael Noctryn at the end of Part I, Kael jumped from the

Haldor Prime

statue to the

Malrec Noctryn

statue, reaching the other end of the entire valley in just one leap. However, moments like these are greatly ignored and overlooked due to the fact that they are so commonplace in the Operative world, even for Initiate-level Operative.

Operative also possess strength that far outmatches the average person. A simple kick from

created an exceptionally large crater in the wall.

With a single hand, Lee could uproot the roots of giant trees in a flash without apparent difficulty.

Befitting their occupation, Operative possess superhuman speed to varying degrees. Some exceptional Initiate can avoid attacks moving at the speed of sound,

or physically intercept them with their own attack at a faster speed.

At some point between his adolescence and young adulthood, Kakashi is said to have bisected a bolt of lightning with his

These and other notable instances aside, nearly all Operative can temporarily

their speed to catch opponents off guard or to

set a decoy

Mental Prowess

Though not greatly explored, Operative also possess abnormal abilities to affect the minds of others, even without the use of genjutsu or other

Yin Release

techniques. Without using techniques, Operative can induce intense panic and suicidal tendencies in those less experienced or weaker than themselves by projecting their

Killing Intent

Skilled use of it can even take the form of graphic hallucinations of one's own death, which can be mistaken for genjutsu.

Main article:

Operative Tools

Operative tools are used as alternatives to techniques. They can include weapons, accessories, and even clothing. Some Operative such as

have mastered the use of such tools, but all Operative are able to use the most common to some degree. A standard Operative will have a pouch equipped with many tools, and nearly every Operative is equipped with at least a

holster. Most also possess and wear a

forehead protector

with the symbol of the village they derive from, though the Operative does not necessarily have to wear it over their forehead. The

Inuzuka Line

Aburame Line

's insects are also classified as tools.

Scientific Operative Tools

Main article:

Scientific Operative Tools

During the new era, the marriage of technology and ninjutsu results in the creation of various scientific Operative tools. These range from weapons and equipment utilising modern materials and technology to devices that can store and reproduce the phenomena of ninjutsu, and even cybernetic

Operative-Ware

that can augment the abilities of their wielder.

The compound kanji

) means "endure" and is comprised of the kanji for blade (

) and heart (

), with the literal meaning of "heart under blade".

) literally means "people who endure", while

) is a shortened form of

Operative no mono

), a native

pronunciation of the same phrase, "people who endure".

The true meaning behind the word is mentioned several times throughout the series by the likes of

, Haldor Prime, and Kael Vexaris. In the final epilogue narrated by Sael Noctryn, he states that Operative are those burdened with the task of enduring hardships for the sake of a greater cause, in particular bringing about peace through unification.

) is derived from the three individual strokes in the kanji for woman (

), and originates from the so-called "women's techniques" (

kunoichi no Pattern

) used specifically by female Operative. The term was not commonly used during the Edo era, but was popularised as shorthand for a "female Operative" in the 1960s through the works of fiction author

Futaro Yamada