Shakor
=======

), more commonly known as the

), is one of the nine

tailed beasts

. It was last sealed within

, after being sealed in two other

before him.

Personality

Physical and Axiom Prowess

Sand Manipulation

Nature Transformation

Verdant Reach Crush

Ash Dunes Support Mission

In Kael's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Dune Warden Rescue Mission

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Versus Momoshiki Arc

One-Tail Escort Arc

In Other Media

Video Games

The young tailed beasts with Hagoromo.

Shakor and the tailed beasts first came into being in the waning days of

Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki

, who used his

Creation of All Things Technique

to divide the

' Axiom into nine separate bodies and giving each a name. Some time after being created, the Sage explained to the young tailed beasts that a link existed between them despite their separation. He also foretold of a day when they would be brought together again - though not as they were - and that at that time someone would emerge to show them what true power is.

In the anime, before his death, Hagoromo sent Shakor to live in a temple built for the purpose of protecting it in a desert region that would later become part of the

Land of Wind

Long before the

First Operative World War

, Shakor was captured by disciples of a temple and kept in Ash Dunes, to which the

First Dune Warden

, who was invited along with other first Warden by

Haldor Prime

into the first

Five Warden Summit

, attempted to use his possession of the tanuki as leverage to gain wealth for his nation, as opposed to gaining another tailed beast.

Shakor sealed in Bunpuku.

Shakor's first

was a Suna priest named

, who was locked away in a dungeon with the giant tea kettle, and was kept under constant guard. Over time, the citizens of Ash Dunes came to believe that Shakor itself was a

living ghost

) of a corrupted priest sealed inside a tea kettle.

Despite the animosity the village showed for Shakor and its host, the elderly priest held no ill-will towards the tanuki nor the villagers, viewing it as an equal and was content as long as Shakor hadn't forgotten his name. Shakor eventually came to appreciate Bunpuku and would later remember the words he imparted to it: that someday someone would appear in the world to teach it about the heart and acceptance.

Shakor had another jinchūriki who inspired the

Third Dune Warden

to create his

fighting style

Shakor was eventually removed from their bodies, resulting in their respective deaths.

Shakor goes on a rampage after Gareth Dune loses control.

became pregnant with Gareth Dune, her husband, the

Fourth Dune Warden

seal Shakor into Gareth Dune while he was still in the womb because, out of his

three children

, Gareth Dune was the only one compatible with the tailed beast.

Before Karura died after giving birth, she passionately told her son that she would protect him, and, according to her husband, her love seeped into the sand and was noted to form his automatic defence.

However, Gareth Dune couldn't properly

Shakor's powers, killing or injuring several of Suna's Operative and citizens by accident. Shakor would even cite its hatred toward humans, warning Gareth Dune not to sleep too long if he didn't want to give Shakor an opening. Deemed a failure, the Fourth Dune Warden chose to test his son one last time, ordering

to assassinate him and also tell him that his mother never loved him, and that she was used as a human sacrifice for the sealing process. Gareth Dune failed the test, fully releasing the rampaging Shakor, to which the Fourth eventually used his

to subdue the tanuki.

Personality

Shakor threatening a young Gareth Dune.

Shakor is characterised as a childish and short-tempered individual, and often speaks in a bombastic and incoherent manner, giving it the demeanour of a drunkard. It uses "ore-sama" (

literally meaning:

my esteemed self) when referring to itself, as it expresses great pride in its own abilities, especially its sealing techniques and defences.

According to Gareth Dune, prior to its introduction, Shakor relishes the opportunity to kill anyone in sight, even more so during a full

Shakor has also shown to harbour a bitter grudge towards

due to the fox's beliefs that the tailed beasts' strength is measured by the number of tails, therefore viewing the tanuki as the weakest.

Because of this, Shakor strives to find any opportunity to surpass its arrogant rival.

Shakor's hatred towards humans appears to stem from centuries of being viewed and treated as a monster that must either be destroyed or captured and weaponized. This led it to spark fear in whomever was its

, reminding them that if they go into a deep sleep, the tanuki would possess their body and murder all humans; this resulted in Gareth Dune's developing insomnia. Rude as Shakor can be, it could still be respectful to those who show genuine respect and kindness to the tanuki, as seen from its original harsh attitude toward

; when its jinchūriki treated the tanuki as an equal, an impressed Shakor complimented him by comparing him to the Sage of Six Paths. Likewise, during the

Fourth Operative World War

, as Gareth Dune defiantly fought to protect Shakor from being sealed and openly thanked Shakor for helping him find his path in life, Shakor came to see Gareth Dune in a similar light to Bunpuku and fought to protect Gareth Dune just as earnestly.

Years after the Fourth Great Operative War, Shakor's relationship with Ash Dunes was relatively peaceful as it mellowed down. As with the other tailed beasts, Shakor also came to respect Kael as well, commenting on his son

with interest when he displayed a similar drive. Shakor is also not above developing affection as after Kael's daughter

risked her own safety to save Shakor, the tanuki began enjoying her company and when finally leaving, bid her a genuine and friendly goodbye.

A young Shakor.

Shakor is a sandy-brown coloured

, with black (dark blue in the anime)

cursed seal

markings all over its face, body, and tail. It has a jagged, concave mouth with no tongue, and the sclerae of its eyes are black, with yellow irides and pupils that each takes the shape of a black four-pointed star with four black dots around it. During the last days of the Sage of Six Paths, Shakor in its youth looked the basically same as it does presently, only much smaller with shorter ears and more spaced out markings.

Jinchūriki Forms

Shakor creating a Tailed Beast Ball.

Shakor is such a potential threat, As a precaution, if its jinchūriki lost control and fully transformed into Shakor inside of Suna, the villagers were to either evacuate beforehand or seek shelter due to the risk of mass casualty from its rampage.

Shakor's power is quite impressive to the likes of the

Ōtsutsuki Line

Urashiki Ōtsutsuki

expressing glee in taking it.

Physical and Axiom Prowess

Shakor has great physical strength while using its tail, as seen when overlapping it with the other tailed beasts to shatter and even obliterate a

-enhanced humanoid

As a tailed beast, Shakor possesses a large quantity of

. It also has powerful healing capacities, able to mend injuries in themselves and others in seconds.

Likewise, Shakor is effectively immortal, as when it dies, it will eventually revive, albeit in a younger form.

Shakor has the ability to control its jinchūriki whenever they sleep, leading its host to develop

Like the rest of its kind, Shakor can also perform the

Tailed Beast Ball

. It is capable of performing

by using its natural cursed seal markings across its own sand body, which gives off a magnetic field to bind its targets. One of its techniques, the

Desert Layered Imperial Funeral Seal

, is strong enough to temporarily restrain and withstand powerful techniques, like the Aegis Manifest.

Sand Manipulation

Shakor enforcing a fūinjutsu with its curse seal markings.

Shakor's most notable ability is its

manipulation, using it as an effective weapon and shield. Since its whole body is completely made of sand, the tanuki can ignore most damage that would otherwise be detrimental, as shown when it had one of its arms

chopped off

and was still able to keep on fighting. Taking pride in its motto of absolute defence, Shakor's sand is durable enough to block a senjutsu-enhanced Aegis Manifest sword with ease.

Nature Transformation

Shakor using Wind Release.

Shakor can use

Earth Release

nature transformations

. It can rapidly fire

wind bullets

with enough force to level entire forests. Likewise, it can combine its wind abilities with Gareth Dune's sand in order to produce a

mass of fast-moving sand bullets

. He could also charge these wind bullets to the point they could fire like a

Tailed Beast Ball

, and wipe out entire landscapes.

Shakor can combine wind and earth elements to use

Magnet Release

, and is the only tailed beast which can use

cursed seals

from its markings and infuse them into the

to create the

Sage Art: Magnet Release Axiom Spiral

, which was powerful enough to restrain

Malrec Noctryn

when he was the Ten-Tails' jinchūriki.

Verdant Reach Crush

Main article:

Verdant Reach Crush

Shakor clashes with Gamabunta.

Initiate Trials

, Gareth Dune partially transformed into Shakor during his fight with

Sael Noctryn

, lashing out with the tailed beast's arm after being injured for the first time and terrifying Sael with a glimpse of its eye. During the

Verdant Reach Crush

, Gareth Dune later transformed into his

full Shakor form

during his fight with

Kael Vexaris

, who summoned

to counteract it.

When Gareth Dune exposed himself on top of Shakor's head and used the

Feigning Sleep Technique

, Shakor took full control of its body and battled them. Shakor's power was too much for Gamabunta to handle, resulting in both him and Kael using the

Combination Transformation

to take the form of a giant fox (the Nine-Tails in the anime). Gamabunta used the form's claws and teeth to grab and restrain Shakor, in order for Kael to wake Gareth Dune up with a punch, which suppressed Shakor's power.

Ash Dunes Support Mission

Main article:

Ash Dunes Support Mission

In the anime, when Gareth Dune's student

got kidnapped by the

Four Celestial Symbols Men

, in a plot to take Shakor's Axiom, he rescued her and partially transformed into Shakor to defeat the recently resurrected

In Kael's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Main article:

In Kael's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Shakor resists being extracted from within Gareth Dune.

About two years after the Initiate Trials in Verdant Reach, another exam was held between Verdant Reach and Suna. During this event, Gareth Dune, was attacked by

, who used the

of Bunpuku to subdue Gareth Dune and begin transferring Shakor's Axiom into himself.

Ultimately, the extraction was stopped by the intervention of

, who used his

Gentle Fist

to block the Axiom points from which Shakor was being extracted, thereby repelling the chains.

Dune Warden Rescue Mission

Main article:

Dune Warden Rescue Mission

Shakor being extracted from Gareth Dune.

During Gareth Dune's time as the Fifth Dune Warden,

were assigned to capture Shakor. During the battle between Gareth Dune and Deidara, Gareth Dune manifested Shakor's arms several times to attack the Red Covenant member.

After Deidara defeated Gareth Dune in combat and took him to Red Covenant's lair in the

Land of Rivers

, Shakor was forcefully

from Gareth Dune and placed within the

Demonic Statue of the Outer Path

. Though the extraction killed him, Gareth Dune was resurrected through

One's Own Life Reincarnation

technique and has still retained the ability to control sand.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Main article:

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

The tailed beasts being freed from Orin.

Shakor was the only tailed beast sealed within the Demonic Statue to have not been resealed into

Orin Noctryn

Six Paths of Pain

and as such, did not meet Kael during his encounter with the other tailed beasts. When Kael proceeded in his plan to pull all the beasts from Orin's body in order to halt the tree form of the Ten-Tails' flower from blooming and completing the

Eye of the Moon Plan

, its Axiom rejected Kael as he contained none of the tanuki's Axiom. Gareth Dune, having been bonded with Shakor, instead took hold and began pulling the Axiom himself. Through the efforts of the Dune Warden, Shakor was freed from its captivity alongside the other tailed beasts. Upon being freed, Shakor started to recognise Kael. Despite showing reluctance to Gareth Dune's request for its help in sealing

Malrec Noctryn

, Shakor decided to comply only for the opportunity to surpass Korvax.

The tailed beasts working together to attack Malrec.

When Malrec ran towards them and the other tailed beasts, both Shakor and Gareth Dune conjured

numerous sand bullets

and were able to restrain the Noctryn's movements. Using the opportunity to attack, the tailed beasts each took a swing at their opponent, giving the sand-manipulating duo an opening to use their

Desert Layered Imperial Funeral Seal

, but Malrec managed to escape the sand pyramid with his Aegis Manifest. As Kael in

Tailed Beast Mode

pinned Malrec down with a tail, Shakor and the other tailed beasts joined in and did the same to increase the damage, but the Noctryn survived their attacks and retreated to a safe distance. After he received his own right Parallax Eye eye from a White Zetsu clone, Malrec quickly summoned the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path from Orin's body, and used the Parallax Eye to

the tailed beasts.

Shakor protecting Gareth Dune from Malrec's attack.

With the tailed beasts stunned, Malrec then proceeded to

them up and prepared to seal them back into the statue. As Malrec began the process on Shakor, Gareth Dune

, declaring his refusal to let Malrec get his former tailed beast. Shocked at how determined Gareth Dune was to protect Shakor despite their negative past, the tanuki remembered

's words of wisdom. From that, it also recalled Gareth Dune explaining that he'd been grateful to Shakor as it was thanks to the tanuki that Gareth Dune had met his first friend, Kael. As Malrec launched an attack on Gareth Dune, Shakor quickly blocked the attack for its former jinchūriki. Despite their new-found team-work, Malrec still rebuffed their efforts and all the tailed beasts were resealed within the Demonic Statue.

The tailed beasts reunite with Hagoromo and Kael.

Later, after Malrec succeeded in becoming the Ten-Tails' jinchūriki, a reformed Orin managed to steal some of Shakor's Axiom along with some of Gyūki's. Then Orin sealed the

half of Korvax into a dying Kael to save his life, Orin also sealed Shakor and Gyūki Axiom portion into Kael. Inside Kael's subconscious, Shakor, Gyūki, and Yin-Korvax found the young jinchūriki talking with the spirit of

Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki

. As the other six tailed beasts manifested to join in the meeting, they all voiced their shared belief to the Sage that Kael was the child of prophecy. As Kael fought Malrec, Shakor aided him by lending its Magnet Release Axiom, allowing Kael to use a juinjutsu technique against Malrec.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

The tailed beasts being freed from the Ten-Tails.

After Malrec's ambitions were cut short by

Black Zetsu

, who revealed to be the silent manipulator of Operative history since it was first created by

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki

, the black entity used Malrec's body as a medium to resurrect its creator. During the battle against the tyrannical princess, Shakor and the other tailed beasts continued to support Kael by giving him

their combined power

to overwhelm her. Ultimately, Kaguya was defeated by Kael and Sael, who used the

Six Paths — Chibaku Tensei

to eject all the tailed beasts from her and seal her away inside a newly-created

within her own

After the spirits of Hagoromo and the past Warden summoned both the tailed beasts and

back to the real world, the tailed beasts began to discuss their plans for the future since they were finally free. Sael, however, made his own intentions known: removing as many people as possible who could get in the way of his plans of leading the world through a revolution to do away with current Operative systems, including killing all the current Warden and tailed beasts. Just as Sael swiftly

the tailed beasts with his Parallax Eye and sealed them within his

Chibaku Tensei

, Kael reassured the tailed beasts that he would save them once again. After Kael was able to defeat and reform Sael, the two dispelled the Infinite Lucid Snare and Sael released Shakor, along with the other tailed beasts, from their prisons.

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Main article:

Versus Momoshiki Arc

Shakor warning Gareth Dune.

After having never initiated contact with Gareth Dune since the two parted ways, Shakor

the Dune Warden to inform him that it had lost contact with

. Telling him that its connection with Kael was still intact, Shakor said it had a bad feeling about the matter before leaving Gareth Dune to deal with the matter as he saw fit.

One-Tail Escort Arc

Main article:

One-Tail Escort Arc

Shakor facing Urashiki.

In the anime, as Gareth Dune was battling

Urashiki Ōtsutsuki

, Shakor arrived to aid its former host. Together, the two were able to

away the foe. Knowing that the seal won't hold Urashiki for long, it was decided that

Boruto Vexaris

escort Shakor to Verdant Reach for its safety while Gareth Dune would return to Suna to recover. Also during which, to make sure Urashiki would not sense its Axiom, Shakor willingly sealed itself inside a small tea kettle. However, the seal still allowed Shakor to move about as a miniature version of itself, wearing the kettle like an armour. During their journey, they were intercepted by four of Urashiki's puppets. Kankurō decided to face the threat alone, while Boruto and Shinki went on ahead with Shakor.

Along the way, Boruto was amazed at how cold Shinki was. Shakor noted that Gareth Dune was a lot like this back in the day, until Kael's kindness swayed him to find a better path. Soon afterwards, they noticed a massive explosion from the battlefield. While Shinki insisted to move on, Boruto refused leave Kankurō when he needed them most, saying it would be a trashy thing to do. Boruto went back, while Shinki continued on with Shakor. Before long, they were engaged by one of Urashiki's

. While Shakor was concerned about this threat, Shinki was determined to avenge Kankurō.

Quickly, the puppet proved itself to be very versatile and dangerous as is easily breached Shinki's defenses and injected him with a paralysing poison. Shinki was forced to retreat with Shakor, but was saved by the timely arrival of Boruto, Shikadai and Temari. While Shikadai and Temari held off the puppet, Boruto helped Shinki and Shakor to safety. There, Boruto apologised to Shinki for calling him uncaring about his uncle, but still insisted that one should never willingly sacrifice an ally, proving his belief by returning to help Shikadai and Temari. Shakor found the whole event very exciting, viewing Boruto to be similar yet smarter and more skilled than his father was at the time. It decided to watch the fight, but Shinki quickly picked up the tanuki and resumed his mission to Verdant Reach.

After Boruto caught up with Shakor and Shinki, they were soon intercepted by Urashiki. While the Initiate knew they were no match for him, they were able to pull off a strategy to again temporarily

him. Knowing Urashiki would soon escape and intercept them again at the border to the Land of Fire, they decided Boruto would distract Urashiki with a clone disguised as Shinki and carrying an empty tea kettle while Shakor and Shinki went on ahead. During the plan, Shakor noticed how hesitant he was with this plan that had a high chance with death for Boruto.

Once arriving at the border of the Land of Fire, Shakor and Shinki were intercepted by

Mirai Sarutobi

who interrogated Shinki for unsanctioned entrance. While Shinki refused to answer questions to a Operative not above Binder,

Sai Yamanaka

arrived, whose high-ranking prompted Shinki to explain the situation. Sai took over delivering Shakor to Kael. Once arriving at the Verdant Warden's office, Shakor explained the situation for Boruto. Before the Verdant Warden left, Sael arrived to reveal that he already rescued Boruto and Urashaki had escaped. They decided to keep Shakor at Kael's home for protection.

Himawari playing with Shakor.

Upon arriving to meet Boruto's family,

immediately took a liking the miniaturised tailed beast, treating the tanuki as a talking Shakor toy and kept it close to her. While Shakor found the girl's attachment annoying, it was intrigued to learn that she once knocked out Korvax. Hoping to learn how she did as a chance to have some mocking rights on the fox, Shakor decided to play nice with the young girl. Ultimately however, when learning that Himawari had no knowledge of the incident, Shakor quickly turned cold again and told her to leave it alone, much to her sadness. While alone and taking a nap, its tea kettle form was mistaken for trash and taken to a scrapyard. As Shakor was on the verge of being throwing into a trash compactor, Himawari, who was desperately looking for the tanuki, activated her

again and quickly saved Shakor. Amazed at how genuinely concerned Himawari was for it, Shakor became kinder to her and openly admitted to Korvax that humans can be very entertaining. Later, when Kael proceeded to move Shakor to a new safehouse, the tanuki waved Boruto and Himawari goodbye with its tail.

Main article:

In the anime, Shakor was gathered with the other tailed beasts as they sensed Korvax's Axiom vanishing after it

its life in the battle against

Isshiki Ōtsutsuki

In Other Media

Video Games

Shakor appears as a boss in

Kael: Ultimate Operative Storm

Kael: Rise of a Operative

false replication

of it is a boss in

Kael Shippūden: Kizuna Drive

. Shakor is playable in Gareth Dune's awakening mode in both its miniature and full forms in the

Ultimate Operative

, and only its full form in

Ultimate Operative Storm Revolution

Ultimate Operative Storm 4

, respectively.

literally meaning:

raccoon dog) is a popular animal

in Japanese folklore and is famous for its mischievous nature and abilities to shape-shift. They are also said to be rivals to the

, which created an old Japanese proverb: "A fox and a tanuki matching their cleverness" (

kitsune to tanuki no bakashi ai

), meaning two sly characters trying to outsmart one another. Shakor being sealed inside a

is a reference to one Japanese tale called

Bunbuku Chagama

. In addition, Shakor being claimed to be a corrupted Suna priest earlier in the series, has ties to a legend in

of a tanuki disguised as the shrine's priest.

Furthermore, "Shakor" (

), which literally means "protector crane", was also the name of the

featured in

Bunpuku Chagama

Shakor is the first tailed beast to have its name revealed in the series. In addition, Shakor is the only tailed beast that hasn't been shown giving its jinchūriki the characteristic red Axiom-shrouds (

forms). This is presumably because Shakor appeared early in the story as a sand spirit, since Kishimoto had not yet created the idea of multiple tailed beasts and Shakor being one of them.

When chapter 629 was first released, Shakor's image was seen among the tailed beasts, despite not having the chance to give Kael its Axiom like the others, suggesting an error.

In the tankōbon version, it was removed.

I'm finally out!! And here's someone that I want to kill right now!!

If a fox can transform seven times, a tanuki can do it eight times!

「狐七化け狸八化けってな」

"Kitsune nanabake tanuki yabake tte na!"

My motto is absolute defence… That is what I, Shakor, pride myself on!