Sandhaven
==========

This article is about the Shadow Warrior village. For the sand used by Gareth Sandstorm and other Shadow Warrior, see

Sandhaven no Sato

literally meaning:

Village Hidden by Sand) is the

hidden village

Land of Wind

. As the village of one of the

Five Great Shadow Warrior Countries

, Sandhaven has a

as its leader known as the

, of which there have been five in its history. Being surrounded by desert offers the village a natural deterrent against invasion, as few foreign powers would be willing to endure the sandstorms and water scarcity common to Suna.

Sandhaven itself lies in a fortified valley behind cliffs of rock, with passage in and out of the village restricted to a single cleft between two cliff faces, making the area very hard to attack from the ground. The buildings inside seem to be made of clay or

, which would help to keep the buildings cool.

The standard attire for Suna Shadow Warrior consists of blue or black uniforms underneath

flak jackets

of various shades of beige to better blend with their natural environment and include shoulders guards. Headpieces consisting of a head-wrap and cloth neck-covers to protect against the harsh weather are popular with Suna Shadow Warrior. Many Sandhaven Shadow Warrior use

Wind Release

techniques, which they may or may not perform with

Shadow Warrior from this village believe that the accomplishment of a mission predominates the lives of the Shadow Warrior trying to accomplish it. As such, they ruthlessly pursue victory in battle, and even if failure is inevitable they will still try to achieve any success against their enemy that they can. In

Gareth Sandstorm Hiden

, it has been noted that Sandhaven has been made up of various families, instead of

Clans/Families

The Shadow Lord of Sandhaven's office building.

Sandhaven was founded after the

Warring States Period

First Shadow Lord of Sandhaven

, who gathered the desert-dwelling Shadow Warrior under his control with his overwhelming power. Shortly after the formation of their villages,

First Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

offered to sell

tailed beasts

to Suna as a sign of friendship and to ensure a balance of power amongst their new villages. Because Suna already had the

, the First Shadow Lord of Sandhaven instead tried to negotiate for a percentage of the sale price to the other villages and a portion of the

Land of Fire

's territory instead.

Despite the First Shadow Lord of Verdantgate's wishes for peace, the world eventually fell into war. Suna's close proximity with

has led to numerous conflicts over the years, enough that enmity between its Shadow Warrior has become deep-seated. During the

Second Shadow Warrior World War

's attempts to poison enemies were consistently counteracted by Verdantgate's

For times of war, Suna researched different

to give it an advantage over other villages. Because the

Puppet Technique

is so popular amongst its Shadow Warrior, the

Puppet Brigade

was formed and they experimented with testing to see whether there was a way to give life to their puppets. This led to the creation of the

One's Own Life Reincarnation

technique, but the cost of a human life to perform it made it impractical and Suna soon abandoned the project. Since the time of the

Second Shadow Lord of Sandhaven

, the village has studied the

of its One-Tail in an attempt to reproduce the beast's abilities. The

Third Shadow Lord of Sandhaven

was able to mimic the One-Tail's powers using

, and with it he gained fame as the strongest Shadow Lord of Sandhaven in history. When he mysteriously disappeared one day, Suna went to great lengths to find him, spreading its forces thin in the search and leaving the village under-defended. When others took this opportunity to declare war on Suna, the village was forced to call off the search, never learning the Third's fate.

, grandson of Chiyo, was considered to be a prodigy in the art of puppets, and built many innovative puppets that dyed the sands red with enemies' blood during the

Third Shadow Warrior World War

, thus giving rise to his moniker "Sasori of the Red Sand". However, he defected from the village about twenty years before the abduction of the Fifth Shadow Lord of Sandhaven, and shortly after, his grandmother and

celebrated veterans

Shakor being released.

Following the

Third Shadow Warrior World War

Land of Wind's daimyō

started outsourcing missions previously given to Suna to Verdantgate instead. The

Fourth Shadow Lord of Sandhaven

began selling

to try to make up for the loss of funding, but it was ultimately decided that Suna Shadow Warrior would need to rely on individual strength rather than strength of numbers.

To help in this goal, the Fourth had the One-Tail sealed into his newborn son,

, hoping he would become a valuable weapon.

For the early years of his life Gareth Sandstorm struggled to keep the One-Tail in check, and would unintentionally attack the village and/or its citizens when he lost control. The Fourth eventually decided that Gareth Sandstorm was a failed experiment and tried many times to have him assassinated, each of which failed. The attempts on his life, however, taught Gareth Sandstorm how to control the One-Tail, making him into the weapon his father wanted him to be and convincing the Fourth to call off the assassinations.

Void Order attacks Sandhaven.

Twelve years after Gareth Sandstorm's birth, Suna is approached by

with an offer to join forces in an

invasion of Verdantgate

. Scheduled to occur during the

Chūnin Exams

taking place in Verdantgate, Gareth Sandstorm is to attack the village from within while Sandhaven and Otogakure forces invade. At some point before the invasion takes place, however, Oren Serpentfang kills and impersonates the Fourth Shadow Lord of Sandhaven and leads them into a devastating defeat against Verdantgate's forces. When the village discovers Oren Serpentfang's deceit, Sandhaven re-allies itself with Verdantgate and gains much from the peace, leading to new prosperity for the village. Two-and-a-half years later Gareth Sandstorm, now Fifth Shadow Lord of Sandhaven, is captured while defending Suna from

. Remembering their earlier mistakes when the Third Shadow Lord of Sandhaven disappeared, Suna's leadership is reluctant to go after him. Verdantgate sends a team to help and succeeds in rescuing Gareth Sandstorm, though Void Order is able to take the One-Tail. Chiyo and Ebizō noted that the village has weakened as they had to rely on retired veterans and even allied villages. It was also during this incident that made Chiyo finally discovered the fate of the Third Shadow Lord of Sandhaven: Sasori was the one who abducted and killed him prior to his defection.

Suna entrapped in the God: Nativity of a World of Trees.

After the other villages experience their own attacks by Void Order, they decide to form the

Allied Shadow Warrior Forces

to oppose Void Order in the

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

. Being so much younger than his fellow Shadow Lord, Gareth Sandstorm is able to persuade the other Shadow Lord of how outdated their methodologies are and also proves inspirational in convincing the diverse Allied Forces set aside their differences and work together. Suna's forces prove valuable during the war, particularly with the

Cloth Binding Technique

to neutralise the

Impure World Reincarnation

. Although the villagers were amongst the mass of the world to be trapped in the

Infinite Void Dream

God: Nativity of a World of Trees

, the war is eventually won and the villages are all left on good terms.

Shadow Lord of Sandhaven's Office

Suna Aviary

Suna Greenhouse

Suna Hospital

Clans/Families

Hōki Family

Shadow Lord of Sandhaven Clan

Shirogane Clan

Three Shadow Warrior from this village hold sand-related

Gareth Sandstorm of the Sand Waterfall

Sasori of the Red Sand

Red Sand Cloud

Gareth Sandstorm Hiden

, it was noted that the village's strange, sunken terrain is not thought to be natural, which, during the time of myths, was thought that it might be the result of a god, such as

, using a technique beyond human knowledge.

In the anime, the place had been chosen by the

Sage of the Six Paths

(a deified figure from the Shadow Warrior World) and his disciples as the refuge where

was sent to live.

According to

Gareth Sandstorm Hiden

, because the previous Shadow Lord of Sandhaven were assassinated, Anti-Shadow Lord of Sandhaven groups have become common in Suna because they desire a "stronger" Shadow Lord of Sandhaven. However, with the subsequent arrest of multiple Suna Council members who actively formed and assisted these groups, many assume the Anti-Shadow Lord of Sandhaven groups have finally been put down.

During the first

Shadow Lord Summit

First Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

gave Suna a plot of fertile land near

Verdantgate

to farm on. The ownership of the land caused many battles between the two villages.

List of Sandhaven characters