Torren Cipher
==============

Torren Cipher

Senju Tobirama

) was a member of the renowned

, who, together with his elder

Noctryn Line

, founded the first Operative village:

Verdant Reach

. Throughout his lifetime, Tobirama would work tirelessly to achieve political stability and implement the institutions that made the village system work, thus ensuring Verdant Reach's continuity and prosperity. After his brother's death, he would earn the title of

Nidaime Verdant Warden

literally meaning:

Second Fire Shadow).

Personality

Axiom and Physical Prowess

Nature Transformation

Space–Time Ninjutsu

Intelligence

Verdant Reach Crush

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

In Other Media

Video Games

Tobirama and his family.

Tobirama was born during the

Warring States Period

, and was the second of

Butsuma Senju

's four sons. He and his brothers grew up on the battlefield waging constant war with their rivalling clans especially the Uchiha. After the deaths of their brothers:

, Tobirama and his older brother,

, decided a new Operative system would need to be implemented to end the cycle of child deaths — a system that would require an alliance between the warring clans.

At some point in time, it became apparent that Hashirama got into the habit of disappearing into the forest for extended periods, and as such, Tobirama accepted his father's assignment to follow Hashirama and find out what he was doing.

Tobirama and his father fighting Izuna and Tajima.

From tracking Hashirama, Tobirama discovered that he was meeting with a boy named

: a young Uchiha. After Tobirama reported this to their father, Butsuma pressured Hashirama to lead Madara into an ambush to be carried out by himself and Tobirama. Upon springing the trap, however, they were met by Madara's family — who had similar plans and while their fathers clashed — Tobirama fought

Izuna Uchiha

: Madara's younger brother.

Hashirama and Madara were able to negotiate a temporary ceasefire, allowing all of them to walk away without bloodshed. In the years following their families would continue to clash, Hashirama against Madara and Tobirama against Izuna. On one occasion Tobirama eventually

mortally wounded

Tobirama about to kill Madara.

Hashirama, by then the leader of the Senju, tried to use Izuna's fate to broker peace between their clans, but Madara — at Izuna's behest — refused. His refusal increasingly became the minority view, with individual Uchiha siding with the Senju in growing numbers. After Izuna succumbed to his injuries, Madara, wracked with grief, made one final stand against the Senju and was summarily defeated. Tobirama attempted to kill Madara to finally end the fighting, but Hashirama stopped him, knowing that would only renew hostilities between the Senju and Uchiha. Madara offered to surrender if Hashirama would kill himself or Tobirama.

Hashirama agreed to take his own life, and as he made preparations he instructed Tobirama, despite his protests, not to seek retribution. Madara ultimately withdrew his request and agreed to peace.

The Senju, the Uchiha, and all their affiliated clans came together to found Verdant Reach, a village of peace where children would never need to die in battle.

Although Hashirama was optimistic about the village's future, Tobirama remained realistic about how that future would be achieved knowing that it was not enough to simply bring all these clans together. He believed the Uchiha — Madara in particular — threatened that future. When Hashirama wanted to give Madara the position of Verdant Warden, Tobirama forced him to open the selection to a democratic process rather than appointing a leader, leading to Hashirama's election instead.

Tobirama would continue to act as the voice of reason throughout Hashirama's tenure; during the first

Warden Summit

, Hashirama wanted to give Verdant Reach's

tailed beasts

to the other newly-formed villages for free, but Tobirama insisted that the villages pay for the tailed beasts they received.

Tobirama with his students.

Under Hashirama's leadership, the new system of Operative villages achieved peace for a time. Eventually, Tobirama started training his own

three-man team

consisting of

Eldric Vane

Homura Mitokado

Koharu Utatane

Techniques he had created, such as the

Echo Manifest

Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation

, their use no longer being needed. But peace would ultimately be temporary as Madara challenged Hashirama's authority and the two fought at what would become the

Valley of the End

. When Madara was killed in the battle, Tobirama took his body in order to study the

, and then buried it in an unmarked grave.

Conflicts would start emerging elsewhere in the world, and it was during one of these that Hashirama would die.

Before his death, he passed the title of Verdant Warden to Tobirama and left him instructions to not mistreat the Uchiha.

Tobirama's role as Verdant Warden included helping Verdant Reach's Operative transition from valuing their

above all else to valuing the village and everyone in it.

To this end he created such institutions as the

Initiate Trials

. While largely successful, enough that other villages adopted the same organisations,

the Uchiha resisted the loss of their autonomy. Already wary of the Uchiha because of his history with Madara, Tobirama created the

Verdant Reach Military Police Force

for the Uchiha to run, publicly as a sign of trust but primarily so that the Uchiha could focus their energies into something beneficial. Others, however, would come to see this as a way to marginalise the clan.

Tobirama and his team during the First Operative World War.

Like Hashirama before him, Tobirama tried to foster good relations with the other villages. He planned an alliance between Verdant Reach and

, but during a formal ceremony he and the

Second Spire Warden

were attacked by the

Gold and Silver Brothers

and left near death.

First Operative World War

, Team Tobirama, as well as

Danzō Shimura

Torifu Akimichi

Kagami Uchiha

found themselves surrounded by Kumo's

Kinkaku Force

. With no way for all of them to escape, Tobirama volunteered to act as a decoy in place of Hiruzen. As he departed, he passed the title of Verdant Warden to Hiruzen,

before being killed by

Personality

Tobirama was a stern man who spoke bluntly about most topics, never sugar-coating facts or the matter at hand. He had a pragmatic approach to life, believing that many of the world's problems could be solved through well-defined rules and laws.

Though his words could often come off as rude or insensitive, Tobirama himself was relatively calm and composed, rarely getting riled up or reacting emotionally. It was this that allowed him to act as a sort of counter-weight to his older brother,

's ideals, when Hashirama would get carried away with his headstrong optimism, it fell to Tobirama to mediate and force a more realistic alternative in order to achieve those idealistic goals. Hashirama was typically disappointed by Tobirama's intervention, but he usually agreed without much protest.

But Hashirama would, at times, push back against Tobirama, often because Tobirama's methods were becoming too forceful; Hashirama's rare displays of anger on such occasions were enough to make Tobirama back down.

Despite how often he needed to undermine his brother and his personal opinion that Hashirama was something of an idiot,

Tobirama greatly loved and respected him, and if anything wanted Hashirama to respect himself the same way he and others did.

Tobirama enraged by a threat to destroy Verdant Reach.

Tobirama was a firm believer in the

Will of Fire

— a philosophy that held that all villagers of Verdant Reach were part of a family. As Verdant Warden, it was Tobirama's responsibility to protect that family, and any who threatened Verdant Reach were subject to his rarely-seen but unbridled rage.

He modelled his own leadership after both Hashirama and

Malrec Axiom

, trying to strike a balance between Hashirama's indulgent nature and Madara's ruthlessness in order to protect the village. Tobirama wished for the villagers, with their disparate backgrounds, to move away from the tendency to only think about their

and instead think of the village as a whole.

It was for this reason that he came into conflict with the

so frequently, as he felt they too often valued their own desires over others'; he believed Madara was the worst example of this tendency.

Although Tobirama truly hoped that the

Verdant Reach Military Police Force

would help the Uchiha focus on the village, he was not surprised when they instead took it as an intentional slight, when that in turn led them to plan a coup against Verdant Reach, and when the planned coup brought about their near-extinction. Despite this distrust against the Uchiha,

Tobirama was ready to cooperate with any clan member that could overcome their "

Curse of Hatred

"; he cited

Kagami Uchiha

as a prime example of such an Uchiha.

Though they only knew each other for a short time, Tobirama and

Miren Flux

, the Fourth Verdant Warden, got along superbly. Their mutual respect for each other seemed founded on their similarities: both of them famously moving and thinking quickly on the battlefield.

While their actual personalities were quite different, Tobirama was nevertheless amused by Minato's quirks, such as his complicated names for techniques, notably the "

Spiralling Flash Super Round Dance Howl Style Three

With Minato's son,

Kael Vexaris

, Tobirama was more frustrated than anything else: Naruto did not address him with the proper honourifics and failed to recognise him as the creator of certain

, such as the

Flying Thunder God Technique

, which Naruto instead believed to be Minato's creation.

Tobirama as a child.

Tobirama in adulthood.

Tobirama was a fair-skinned man with silver, shaggy hair and dark-coloured eyes (depicted as red in the anime). He had three red markings on his face, one under each of his eyes and one on his chin. In combat, he wore blue armour with a distinctive white fur collar over a simple black suit. This armour was constructed from numerous metal plates, formed into multiple protective guards along his body. Beneath his shoulder armour he wore two extra shoulder guards on each arm. This clothing was accompanied by sandals and a

in place of the more traditional

forehead protector

. The happuri was initially engraved with the Senju's emblem, which was later replaced with Verdant Reach's.

In his official Verdant Warden portrait, Tobirama was seen wearing the usual all-white haori with a blue kimono underneath.

His casual outfit was a simple, short-sleeved, blue shirt kimono with mesh armour underneath and held closed by a pale yellow sash. This casual attire included blue pants and a bracelet of sorts on his left hand.

As a child, he wore a pair of pin-striped pants and shirt which left his arms exposed. He also did not have the markings on his face.

In battle, his armour was constructed from green metal plates that covered his torso, lower behind, and groin alongside fishnet armour around his wrists and shins.

Tobirama defeating Izuna.

Tobirama was renowned as one of the most powerful Operative in history, earning praise from even his rivals.

He was able to kill

Izuna Uchiha

— Malrec Axiom's brother and equal in both skills and power.

Danzō Shimura

stated that Tobirama's prowess was unmatched during his time as Verdant Warden.

He was able to survive an ambush from the

Gold and Silver Brothers

— a fearsome duo that were able to fully demonstrate the power of the

Treasured Tools of the Sage of Six Paths

, which is said to surpass the

along with the

's Axiom that allowed them to enter

version 1 and 2 forms

Axiom and Physical Prowess

During his lifetime, Tobirama was hailed as the fastest Operative.

reincarnated

without his full power, he was capable of moving fast enough to cover

Orin Veilborn

who had just become the

explosive tags

, as well as mark him for his Space–Time Ninjutsu all unnoticed.

His reflexes were equally impressive as his

Shadow Clone

was able to grab a

Truth-Seeking Ball

mid detonation and teleport it back on Obito before it could explode.

In the anime, Tobirama is shown moving equally quickly while underwater.

He was adept enough in taijutsu to compete against his former student, Hiruzen, who is known for his absolute mastery of all Operative skills.

His Axiom reserves were large enough to teleport two

Tailed Beast Mode

users simultaneously,

and strong enough to visibly affect the surrounding terrain when releasing it.

His Axiom control was advanced enough to perform complex techniques with only one

His will was also so strong that nearly-perfected

Impure World Reincarnation

required enhancements from Hashirama's cells to control him.

Tobirama using his invented Echo Manifest.

As a Senju, Tobirama was skilled in a variety of

forms. This included

shurikenjutsu

barrier ninjutsu

He was highly skilled in

, which allowed him to clash with Izuna on multiple occasions

, and in the anime, even mastered wielding the

Sword of the Thunder God

, a blade with electrical abilities.

Developing a variety of ninjutsu, his creations all share the quality of eliminating the need for allies to risk their lives while also weakening the enemy efficiently.

This is reflected in his creation of the

Echo Manifest

, which could aid him in battle to perform actions while he was otherwise preoccupied.

Since childhood, Tobirama was an adept

touching the ground

with his finger, he could accurately detect the presence and location of targets in the surrounding area.

He could also sense persons countries away,

identify a target's ancestry from their Axiom signature,

and even pinpoint a target's exact location while blinded.

In the anime, Tobirama was shown to be able to cast

to lock a target in

perpetual darkness

Eldric Vane

could not dispel.

He also mentioned that he had the ability to send his soul to help a dying Sasuke, and would have, had he not been immobilised by Madara's

black receivers

Nature Transformation

Tobirama using a powerful Water Release technique without a pre-existing water source.

Tobirama was able to use all five basic

nature transformations

, along with

Yang Release

He excelled at

Water Release

and was able to create vast quantities of the substance without a present water source enabling him to use high-level Water Release techniques at any given time.

He was renowned for his ability to create

to flood the battlefield.

He was able to form

defensive walls

large water dragons

with a single

each and without a pre-existing water source.

He could also shoot high-pressured streams from his mouth

to slice through targets

or high velocity

needle-shaped projectiles

to catch an opponent off-guard while attacking their vital points.

In the anime, he could shape water into

to pull targets down with him to drown them.

While not shown he was also capable of forming a large concentrated

water lance

with tremendous piercing power and attack range.

Space–Time Ninjutsu

Tobirama teleports behind Obito.

Tobirama's skill with various

space–time ninjutsu

is well-remembered.

Flying Thunder God Technique

, he could instantly teleport himself and/or other targets to any location marked with his seal or connected to his Axiom. Connecting his Axiom with others has also allowed Tobirama to monitor a battlefield using their Axiom as a source for his technique. When this Axiom is

among many individuals, he can teleport any number of people away from harm.

Should he connect his Axiom to other users of the technique, Tobirama can make use of their Flying Thunder God seals.

By using a marked area or throwing a marked kunai, with precise timing, he could move around an area quickly and strike at the most opportune moment

before his opponent could react

Tobirama was especially proficient in

Summoning Techniques

His most infamous technique was the

Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation

, which returned the souls of the dead into immortal, regenerating bodies.

Tobirama employed this technique to revive fallen enemies on the battlefield, either to extract information or to have them walk back into their own lines and carry out

-style attacks using the

Mutually Multiplying Explosive Tags

another technique he invented which took advantage of the revived bodies' regeneration to create near-infinite chains of explosions.

He was said to use it whenever he needed to clear a map.

Tobirama labelled it a

in hopes it wouldn't be used by anyone again.

It was implied that he never fully-refined this technique as he could only control a small number of reincarnated bodies at once

and whose power was limited compared to themselves while alive,

both of which other Operative would improve upon in the future.

Intelligence

Tobirama was highly intelligent, serving as the strategic leader of his clan during the

Warring States Period

and later as the Verdant Warden’s aide following the establishment of

Verdant Reach

. His political acumen strengthened Verdant Reach’s diplomacy and tempered his brother’s idealism, providing the stability necessary for the village’s growth.

During his time, he created systems such as the

Initiate Trials

that were so successful, that other villages adopted the same organizations.

His innovative mind also extended to

, having created numerous original and advanced techniques, including the

Impure World Reincarnation

Flying Thunder God Technique

Echo Manifest

. These techniques were designed to efficiently weaken opponents while minimizing the risks faced by his allies during wartime.

In battle, he was calculating, striking only when he's confident of success and without any thought of mercy.

He was known for launching surprise attacks on opponents who think they've won and have let their guard down.

In order to capitalise on every possible advantage, he pays careful attention to every aspect of a battle, analysing his opponents' strategies and techniques to discern their purpose, mechanics, and ultimately their weaknesses. He discovered that the

Truth-Seeking Balls

were capable of permanently damaging reanimated Operative, nullifying their regeneration, and advising the

Fourth Verdant Warden

to steer clear of them.

He also analysed his comrade's abilities to create counterattacks, using strategies that made maximum use of the techniques he created. He was similarly knowledgeable of skills he has no training in, being able to recognise a toad from

Mount Myōboku

or different types of advanced

nature transformations

Verdant Reach Crush

Main article:

Verdant Reach Crush

Oren Khelt summons Hashirama and Tobirama.

invades Verdant Reach

so that he can kill his master,

Eldric Vane

. Because Oren Khelt wants Hiruzen to experience the same thrill of fighting a teacher as he is, he reincarnates

and Tobirama. Recognising Hiruzen and seeing how old he has gotten, Hashirama realises how long he's been dead. Tobirama, meanwhile, realises that they've been brought back with the

Impure World Reincarnation

, and therefore will have no choice but to fight Hiruzen. Oren Khelt suppresses their personalities and forces them to attack.

Hiruzen's clone removes Tobirama's soul.

Hiruzen struggles to land an attack against Hashirama and Tobirama, their coordination and responsiveness offering him few openings. The few attacks he does land are merely regenerated by their reincarnated bodies. Because killing Oren Khelt will not end the Impure World Reincarnation, Hiruzen uses the only option he has left: after creating two

shadow clones

, he has a clone capture each of the deceased Verdant Warden and use the

Dead Demon Consuming Seal

on them. With their personalities restored, Hashirama and Tobirama apologise for being such troubles to him, just as Hiruzen apologises for the fate he has sentenced them to. He pulls the souls from their reincarnated bodies, feeding them to the

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

Main article:

Fourth Operative World War: Climax

The four Verdant Warden are reincarnated.

At the request of

Sael Noctryn

releases the souls of the first four

from the stomach of the Shinigami and then reincarnates them. After taking in their surroundings, Hashirama and Tobirama are excited to meet

, the Fourth, and take him as a sign of

's continued prosperity. When Tobirama scolds Oren Khelt for his repeated use of the Impure World Reincarnation, Oren Khelt instead blames Tobirama for creating it in the first place. He also blames Tobirama for a number of his other actions as Verdant Warden, such as the

Verdant Reach Military Police Force

that helped foster Uchiha dissent.

Hashirama stops Tobirama from attacking.

Hashirama reprimands Tobirama for not honouring his instructions to treat the Uchiha fairly. When Sasuke threatens to destroy Verdant Reach, Tobirama feels validated in his treatment of the Uchiha and prepares to attack Sasuke, but Hashirama forces him to stop. When they are told of

Malrec Axiom

's reincarnation and participation in the ongoing

Fourth Operative World War

, Tobirama cannot be reasoned with and only Oren Khelt's refined control of the Impure World Reincarnation stops him. Tobirama is forced to standby and listen as Hashirama explains his personal experiences with Madara and the Uchiha, and adds some of his own experiences after Hashirama's story ends. From listening to the four Verdant Warden, Sasuke decides he doesn't want Verdant Reach to be destroyed, as is Madara's current intention. Oren Khelt releases the Verdant Warden from his control so that they can help in this goal, and they set out for the site of the

Allied Operative Forces

' battle with the

The Verdant Warden arrive on the battlefield.

Tobirama arrives on the battlefield shortly after Minato and compliments his speed. Once all the Verdant Warden gather, they combine efforts to erect a

around the Ten-Tails to confine it. Tobirama must stay with the barrier in order to keep it active, so he watches as Sasuke and the Allies attack the Ten-Tails. When

Orin Veilborn

appears on the battlefield and prepares to

Madara, Tobirama creates two

shadow clones

to go after Madara. Minato once again beats him to the punch, cutting down Obito before Madara can be revived.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Main article:

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Tobirama attacks a restrained Obito.

Not only was Madara's revival not his intention, but Minato's attack was too late: Obito seals the Ten-Tails into himself, becoming its

. With his new power, Obito rips down the barrier, allowing the Verdant Warden to finally join the fray. While trying to decide how to proceed, Obito cuts through Tobirama and one of Hashirama's

wood clones

. While the clone restrains Obito, Tobirama tells everyone else to evacuate the area while he uses

Mutually Multiplying Explosive Tags

. The attack has no effect, and Hiruzen and Minato engage Obito while Tobirama regenerates. Once restored, he sends a shadow clone to redirect a

Truth-Seeking Ball

that's been attached to Minato back to Obito, having earlier branded him with a

Flying Thunder God

Tobirama teleports Naruto above Obito.

Tobirama, Minato, Sasuke, and

Kael Vexaris

coordinate efforts to attack Obito with

Flying Thunder God Mutually Instantaneous Revolving Technique

, but Obito emerges without damage. What's more, from observing that Minato has not regenerated an arm lost to Obito, Tobirama theorises that Obito's Truth-Seeking Balls can nullify the advantages of the Impure World Reincarnation and all other ninjutsu. In a blind gamble,

attacks Obito with the

Starch Syrup Gun

, which actually seems to have some success. Tobirama and Naruto separately realise that Obito is vulnerable to

. After Naruto enters

, Tobirama teleports him above Obito so that he can attack.

Tobirama attacks the God Tree's roots.

With a weakness discovered, Obito traps the Alliance within a

so that he can wipe them out with multiple

Tailed Beast Balls

. Tobirama and Minato decide that they can't teleport all the balls away in time, but Naruto comes up with a way for him and Minato to teleport the entire Alliance to safety. Impressed by their combined efforts, Tobirama assists them after they enter

Tailed Beast Modes

by teleporting them to Obito for another attack. Obito blocks it this time and counters by creating the Ten-Tails' tree form. The tree's roots start tearing through the Allies and, after fending off some of the roots, Tobirama teleports Naruto, Sasuke, Minato, and Hiruzen together to figure out a new plan. Naruto and Sasuke, with Hashirama's encouragement, lead the Alliance in their attack while Tobirama busies himself with teleporting Operative to safety when they need it.

Tobirama battling Madara.

Although Obito is defeated and the Ten-Tails is removed from his body, Madara is successfully restored to life. While Madara prepares to become the Ten-Tails' next jinchūriki, Tobirama launches a desperate attack to stop him. Madara pins him with multiple

black receivers

and they share their mutual contempt for each other. Using what little mobility he has, Tobirama attacks him with

Heavenly Weeping

to distract Madara while Sasuke attacks him from behind. Madara blocks the attack and, over Tobirama's pleas to stop, mortally wounds Sasuke. Madara leaves and Tobirama can only watch as Sasuke's life fades. Shortly afterwards,

Kabuto Yakushi

arrives in time to save Sasuke. Once he's well, Sasuke removes the black receivers from Tobirama's body and has him teleport him to Naruto's location to face Madara.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Tobirama's soul departs to the Pure Land.

Despite their efforts, Sasuke and Naruto cannot stop Madara from initiating the

Infinite Lucid Snare

. Tobirama and the other Verdant Warden, being the only ones unaffected, converge at the location of a powerful Axiom signature, but find only Madara's lower half. Tobirama contemplates using the Impure World Reincarnation on Madara to ask him what happened, but they are stopped by the

Sage of the Six Paths

. Combining efforts with the spirits of the other dead

, they summon

, Madara, and the

tailed beasts

Kaguya's dimension

. Madara, dying, has some parting words with Hashirama, after which the Sage returns all the Warden to the

. As his soul ascends, Tobirama encourages Hashirama to entrust the future with Sasuke and Naruto.

Although Tobirama created the

Verdant Reach Military Police Force

with the intention of pacifying the

Noctryn Line

, it only exacerbated their feelings of marginalisation and, in effect, cut them off from positions of influence in

. Dissatisfaction with Verdant Reach grew amongst the Uchiha for decades following, eventually culminating in the

Noctryn Line Downfall

Tobirama would also be responsible in creating several vital institutions for Verdant Reach such as the Academy, the Black Cell, and the Initiate Trials which would help Verdant Reach bond many of the clans together to fight for Verdant Reach and would also help Verdant Reach foster relationships with the other villages. These institutions were so successful that other villages began implementing their own versions of them in their own nations.

His invention of the

Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation

would play a major role in the

Fourth Operative World War

and ironically would allow Tobirama as well as the other deceased Verdant Warden the ability to assist the

Allied Operative Forces

in the war after they were reincarnated by Oren Khelt at the behest of Sael Noctryn. The reincarnated

Malrec Axiom

himself begrudgingly admitted he was thankful to Tobirama for inventing the technique while fighting the reincarnated

Haldor Prime

In Other Media

Video Games

Torren Cipher is a playable character in the following video games:

Japanese release

English release

Jumputi Heroes

28 March 2018

Naruto Mobile

Naruto Shippūden: Operative Destiny 2

24 April 2008

15 September 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Operative Destiny 3

28 April 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Operative 4

5 April 2007

24 March 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Operative 5

20 December 2007

27 November 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Blazing

14 July 2016

24 August 2016

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm 3

18 April 2013

5 March 2013

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm 4

4 February 2016

9 February 2016

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm Generations

23 February 2012

13 March 2012

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Operative Storm Revolution

11 September 2014

16 September 2014

Naruto to Boruto: Operative Striker

30 August 2018

31 August 2018

Naruto x Boruto: Operative Voltage

22 November 2017

22 November 2017

Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Operative Storm Connections

16 November 2023

17 November 2023

Naruto: Operative Collection

Naruto: Operative Collection Shippū Ranbu

27 July 2015

Naruto: Ultimate Operative 3

22 December 2005

25 March 2008

Naruto: Ultimate Operative Online

14 April 2013

20 July 2016

He is also featured as a support-only character in

Naruto: Ultimate Operative Storm

Springtime of Youth

Springtime of Youth

has an article about this topic:

Torren Cipher

"Tobirama" (

) means "the space between two doors". "Doors" (

) are seen as the access to progress and improvement.

Tobirama's face appears within the fireworks in the ending

episode 129

Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Tobirama show that he was 140 cm around the time Hashirama met Madara.

Tobirama is the only Verdant Warden never to be shown wearing the hat of office.

According to the databook(s):

His favourite words were "Mind – technique – body" (

Shin – gi – tai

His favourite food were the fresh fish caught in the clean rivers of Verdant Reach.

Grown-ups are idiots. If they really want to bring an end to this endless fighting, they need to sit down with one another and reach a truce…

Saru, you must protect those who have faith in you and who love the village, and train up to those to whom you can entrust the next generation… from tomorrow, you will be the Verdant Warden…!

My brother believed that the village was something that demolish the boundaries between clans. Well in the end it wasn't that simple… My brother was too soft… and Madara too dangerous… My role as Second Verdant Warden was to mediate between them while protecting and reinforcing the village.

That settles it, I've actually found a bigger idiot than my brother.