Thalia Goldheart
=======

) is a descendant of the

Vexaris Clan

and is one of

Verdantgate

. She is famed as the world's strongest

and its greatest

medical-nin

. The repeated loss of her loved ones caused Thalia Goldheart to later abandon the life of a Shadow Warrior for many years. She is eventually persuaded to return to Verdantgate and take on the mantle of

Godaime Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

literally meaning:

Fifth Fire Shadow), where her skills prove invaluable to the village.

Personality

Physical and Essence Prowess

Transformation Technique

Medical Ninjutsu

Search for Thalia Goldheart

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Mizuki Tracking Mission

The Appearance of Strange Visitors

In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Shadow Lord of Sandhaven Rescue Mission

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Twelve Guardian Shadow Warrior

Void Order Suppression Mission

Three-Tails' Appearance

Itachi Pursuit Mission

Six-Tails Unleashed

Pain's Assault

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Countdown

Paradise Life on as Boat

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Confrontation

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Climax

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Blank Period

Kakashi Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky

The Last: Naruto the Movie

Sakura Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze

Verdantgate Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

Sasuke Retsuden Arc

Time Slip Arc

Kara Actuation Arc

In Other Media

Naruto Shippūden the Movie

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire

Naruto the Movie: Blood Prison

Road to Shadow Warrior: Naruto the Movie

Video Games

Hiruzen and his students.

Thalia Goldheart is the granddaughter of

Haldor Stormborn

Mito Uzumaki

. Because Hashirama was the First

Verdantgate

, Thalia Goldheart is called "Princess" (

). Hashirama doted on Thalia Goldheart when she was very young because she was his first grandchild and found her deviance and her adoption of his own gambling habits highly amusing.

Thalia Goldheart inherited his

when he died. After she graduated from Verdantgate's

, Thalia Goldheart was teamed with

under the leadership of

Haven Ironwill

. When Jaxon Wavecaller failed to acquire a bell during the team's first

, Thalia Goldheart teased him, prompting him to criticise her flat chest.

Despite this remark, Jaxon Wavecaller had a certain interest in Thalia Goldheart from their first meeting,

which only increased after her breasts developed. When she nearly killed him for spying on her while she bathed, he was forced to be more discreet about both his attraction to her and his interest in peeping.

Thalia Goldheart gives Hashirama's necklace to Dan.

Thalia Goldheart's younger brother,

dreamed of someday becoming Shadow Lord of Verdantgate so that he could protect Verdantgate, their grandfather's legacy. On Nawaki's twelfth birthday, Thalia Goldheart kissed his forehead and gave him Hashirama's necklace in the hopes that it would help him achieve his dream. He died the next day, a casualty of the ongoing

Second Shadow Warrior World War

, thus returning the necklace to her. Thalia Goldheart began advocating for the inclusion of

medical-nin

on all four-man squads in order to avoid future deaths like Nawaki's. Hiruzen, the Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, agreed with her arguments, but could not dedicate resources to the necessary implementation due to the ongoing war.

, on the other hand, shared her views, and as their relationship developed he confided with her his dreams of becoming Shadow Lord of Verdantgate so that he could bring change to Verdantgate and protect his loved one from death. Thalia Goldheart kissed his forehead and gave him Hashirama's necklace in the hopes that it would help him achieve his dream.

Hanzō dubs the Sannin.

Although their team under Hiruzen's leadership had disbanded, Thalia Goldheart, Oren Serpentfang, and Jaxon Wavecaller continued fighting together during the Second Shadow Warrior World War. During one such fight in

, they were the only three to survive an encounter with

, an accomplishment for which Hanzō dubbed them Verdantgate's "Legendary

In the aftermath of the battle, Jaxon Wavecaller opted not to return to Verdantgate so that he could train the

Ame orphans

. Thalia Goldheart would go on to make her own independent contributions to the war, frequently counteracting

Although Thalia Goldheart's actions are said to have won the war for Verdantgate,

Thalia Goldheart was unable to prevent Dan's death, and her failure to stop his severe blood loss caused her to develop

haemophobia

. With Dan's death, Hashirama's necklace returned to Thalia Goldheart once again, convincing some that the necklace was cursed to kill anyone who wore it other than Thalia Goldheart. Thalia Goldheart herself became convinced that achieving one's dreams was impossible and that to be Shadow Lord of Verdantgate was a "fool's job". She therefore left Verdantgate during the height of the

Third Shadow Warrior World War

, taking Dan's niece,

, with her to train her as a disciple. Due to her haemophobia, Thalia Goldheart retired from any direct involvement in healing or combat, instead relying on Shizune's skills whenever a need for either came up.

Thalia Goldheart challenges the Fourth Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep to an arm wrestling match.

At one point during their travels, Thalia Goldheart and Shizune encountered the

Fourth Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep

, where the latter requested her help in removing the

Exploding Insect

implanted in his

subordinate

. However, Thalia Goldheart was completely drunk and ended up falling asleep, completely forgetting about her conversation with A. After A insisted, Thalia Goldheart challenged him to an arm wrestling contest, promising to help should she lose. A managed to defeat Thalia Goldheart by using his speed rather than strength, and Thalia Goldheart complied and followed him to his subordinate's location. After Thalia Goldheart diagnoses the situation and realises that one of the insects was also inside A, she decided to conduct the surgery. However, Thalia Goldheart instead enlisted Shizune to conduct it, and once blood was splattered in her face, Thalia Goldheart left to regain her composure while Shizune performed the surgery and explained the origins of Thalia Goldheart's trauma to A and his team.

Personality

Thalia Goldheart was very willing to believe in the attainability of dreams while her little brother Nawaki and her lover Dan were still alive, and that by supporting and encouraging those dreams, she might be able to help achieve them. When both died gruesomely shortly after receiving her support, Thalia Goldheart lost faith in the idea of dreaming for anything, believing that the mere pursuit of it would be doomed from the outset and retiring from the life of a Shadow Warrior with the intention to spend the rest of her life away from her village in the company of her disciple Shizune, Dan's own niece. Thalia Goldheart becomes especially critical of those wanting to be Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, as both Dan and Nawaki died trying to attain the title and the past Shadow Lord of Verdantgate (including her grandfather Hashirama, her great-uncle

, and her former teacher Hiruzen) have all died prematurely and, as Thalia Goldheart argues, pointlessly because they held the position; she concludes that to be Shadow Lord of Verdantgate is a fool's job.

Thalia Goldheart's traumatic loss develops hemophobia.

Thalia Goldheart is forced to reconsider her cynicism upon meeting

Kael Vexaris

, who demonstrates two things to her: just because a goal seems impossible does not mean it actually is, as Naruto is able to master the

unprecedentedly quickly despite seemingly lacking any natural talent; and just because the dreamer dies does not mean the dream itself does, as Nawaki and Dan's desire to become Shadow Lord of Verdantgate lives on in Naruto. Because Naruto is so very much an exception to how she thought the world worked, Thalia Goldheart puts her faith in dreams once again, a desire so strong that she overcomes her fear of blood.

She becomes Shadow Lord of Verdantgate herself, partly so that she can live Nawaki and Dan's dream for them, but also so that she can pave the way for Naruto inevitably holding the title. Becoming close to Naruto, he became the only person she allowed to refer to her as "Grandma", knowing it was out of affection. Later, when Thalia Goldheart is approached by

Lyra Brightstone

, who asks to be her disciple and be taught

medical ninjutsu

, Thalia Goldheart heartily agrees not only because she senses Sakura's potential but because she realizes Sakura has something she wants to protect (

Zephyr Darkwind

and Naruto himself) just like she wanted to protect Nawaki and Dan. As a result, Thalia Goldheart spends the next years juggling between her roles as a village leader and as a mentor with great devotion, despite the constant stress the former position puts on her.

As Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, Thalia Goldheart is committed to protecting Verdantgate and its villagers, willing to give her life for her village and allies if necessary.

Just as she once did, she supports all other dreams that she can; for example, when

tells her he dreams of being a Shadow Warrior despite knowing he may die trying, she does not argue his decision and, in the anime, does all that she can to ensure he survives. She does this because Nawaki and Dan loved Verdantgate and so she keeps their dreams alive by doing so, but also because Verdantgate's continued survival honours all those who gave their lives creating it and keeping it safe. Although her reasons are somewhat different, the outcome is nevertheless consistent with the

Will of Fire

. Thalia Goldheart is similarly optimistic about the

next generation

of Verdantgate's Shadow Warrior, especially Naruto and Sakura, convinced that the village's future will be in good hands because of them. She in fact becomes angry when others lack this same faith in their peers, believing it is better to let them try and then fail than to assume their failure is inevitable and thus prevent them from trying.

Demonstrations of her own faith include but are not limited to: congratulating

Silas Shadowmind

for his failed mission because at least none of his teammates died;

and not labelling Sasuke a

missing-nin

because she trusts that Naruto can someday convince him to return to Verdantgate.

Even as a child, Thalia Goldheart had a love for gambling.

Despite her many noble qualities, Thalia Goldheart is not without her faults and vices. She is blunt and short-tempered, prone to striking Naruto for his immaturity or her old friend Jaxon Wavecaller for his perversion; she is widely feared because of this tendency.

Her own behaviour isn't much better than theirs, as she drinks constantly, sometimes sleeps on the job, and tries as much as she can to have other people do her work for her. One of her favourite vices is gambling, which she acquired from Hashirama. Despite how often and how irresponsibly she gambles, Thalia Goldheart has notoriously bad luck, causing those who have made huge profits off of her to mockingly call her "The Legendary Sucker" (

Densetsu no Kamo

Thalia Goldheart is fully aware of how unlucky she is, and so whenever she hits a winning streak she takes it as a bad omen and prepares for the worst;

she has at times tried using her bad luck to her advantage, betting on outcomes she doesn't want so that her unluckiness will prevent them from happening.

Hashirama finds Thalia Goldheart's many bad habits highly amusing on a personal level, but when he is told that Thalia Goldheart is Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, he immediately worries about what misfortunes she could have brought upon Verdantgate.

Thalia Goldheart dreams of being with her loved ones.

Thalia Goldheart has complex relationships with her fellow Sannin. From their first meeting, Jaxon Wavecaller assumed that there was a mutual attraction between him and Thalia Goldheart, a statement that only served to annoy and anger her. Despite his many advances over the years and the genuine affection between each other, she never reciprocated his romantic feelings, only ever loving Dan, even decades after his death. Jaxon Wavecaller wasn't discouraged by this and claimed that her repeated rejections had not only made him stronger, but they've provided excellent material for his

series of books. Though he concluded that to be happy wasn't his fate. she doubted he believed his own words and she commented that he did not need to put on a brave front when he returned from

When Jaxon Wavecaller ended up dying during that same mission, Thalia Goldheart privately mourned for the loss of her dear friend and teammate.

In contrast to her affectionate friendship with Jaxon Wavecaller, Thalia Goldheart is permanently at odds with their former teammate and friend Oren Serpentfang due to to a long history of betrayal and distrust, from the danger he was to their home and team to his deal to bring Dan and Nawaki

reincarnated

, a result that would make her happy but at the same would go against all they stood for, which she eventually realised. Even after Oren Serpentfang contributed in their victory in the

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

, she still remains wary of her old teammate. This resentment influenced her thoughts of anyone directly related to him, and she was furious at Naruto, in his capacity as the Seventh Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, for allowing Oren Serpentfang's child,

, to immigrate into Verdantgate. Mitsuki's heritage alone led Thalia Goldheart to develop a prejudiced view that he is as dangerous as his parent.

As revealed in the

Infinite Void Dream

, however, Thalia Goldheart's greatest desire was to be with

while supporting Dan as he lived out his dream of being Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, showing she still misses her time with the other Sannin, even Oren Serpentfang.

Thalia Goldheart as a child.

Thalia Goldheart's full appearance.

Thalia Goldheart without her haori.

Thalia Goldheart in her Shadow Warrior outfit.

Thalia Goldheart is a fair-skinned woman with brown eyes and straight blonde hair. Her hair parts above her forehead and has shoulder-length bangs that frame her face and the rest reaches her lower back. During her childhood and through her young-adult years, she wore her hair in a high ponytail, but she later keeps it tied in two loose ponytails. The

Strength of a Hundred Seal

- taking the appearance of a violet diamond mark- is clearly visible on her forehead.

As an adolescent, Thalia Goldheart was considered flat-chested, something which her teammate Jaxon Wavecaller poked fun at. By young-adulthood however, she grew into a slender woman with noticeably large breasts and a curvaceous figure, which Jaxon Wavecaller noted to be 106 centimetres;

Thalia Goldheart is in fact widely regarded as the most beautiful kunoichi in the world.

By her fifties, she appears much older, being heavily wrinkled and rather frail-looking (presumably from over-usage of her

Creation Rebirth

). However, she maintains her youthful appearance using a unique

Transformation Technique

In her childhood, Thalia Goldheart wore grey mesh shirt and over it a teal-coloured kimono with short sleeves and red-lining around the collars which she secured with a blue sash. She also wore red wristbands and white wrapping over her calves with blue sandals.

Thalia Goldheart often wears a grass-green haori with the kanji for "gamble" (

) on the back, inside a red circle. Underneath she wears a grey, kimono-style blouse with no sleeves, held closed by a broad, dark bluish-grey obi that matches her pants. Her blouse is closed quite low, revealing her sizeable cleavage. She wears open-toed, strapped black sandals with high heels. She has red nail polish on both her fingernails and toenails and uses a soft pink lipstick. She wore the

First Shadow Lord of Verdantgate's necklace

for many years until she gave it to Naruto.

Thalia Goldheart shattering Madara's Void Guardian ribcage.

Like other students of the

Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

, Thalia Goldheart is an exceptionally talented Shadow Warrior. She is considered the strongest kunoichi in

Verdantgate

She became well-known following the

Second Shadow Warrior World War

when she, alongside Jaxon Wavecaller and Oren Serpentfang, were titled

. Her skills are popularly held as the reason for Verdantgate's victory during that war, and in the years following, she became known as the world's strongest kunoichi.

Despite being rusty, her skills easily outclassed

Kabuto Yakushi

's when they battled, with him having to rely on using a

Military Rations Pill

to continue battling and using her fear of blood against her to gain the upperhand. Following the Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate's death, she was unanimously recognised to become the Fifth

, proving her worth by saving countless villagers when

Verdantgate. Even the likes of

Malakor Voidheart

admits that Thalia Goldheart was worthy of being a Shadow Lord.

Physical and Essence Prowess

Thalia Goldheart ruptures the ground with one finger.

While Thalia Goldheart believes it is vital for a medical-nin to avoid injury, as they cannot perform their duties if anything happens to them,

she is equally famous for her immense prowess in taijutsu, said to wield the highest level of efficiency.

This is mainly done as a deterrent to keep enemies from getting too close to her while she performs her medical-nin duties. Even more, belying her slender form, she wields inhuman raw strength, able to easily split the ground with a finger strike

or lift and hurl

's sword with deadly accuracy.

Only by severing her muscles is that strength inhibited.

Thalia Goldheart releasing her seal.

As a descendant of both the

Uzumaki Clans

, Thalia Goldheart inherited their life-force and physical energy, allowing her to still fight at peak performance despite her naturally frail form and battle the likes of

Malakor Voidheart

for over half a day without exhaustion. She can even endure several mortal stabs to the chest

and retain consciousness after being bisected

long enough to heal others before being healed herself. Her reserves of Essence are immense, enough to heal several thousand Shadow Warrior during the final battle with

Orion Shadowweaver

. In addition, Thalia Goldheart has excellent control over her

, able to perform her various feats to the maximum efficiency with absolute minimum required Essence and build-up time. Her timing and precision for focusing her Essence is so advanced, by releasing it in parts of her body at the key point of contact, she can further her strength to decimate a target, even break through an "

absolute defence

, with a single blow.

Thalia Goldheart and Katsuyu healing injuries.

Thalia Goldheart has advanced skill with

Strength of a Hundred Seal

, she can continuously store up additional Essence into it. When the seal is

, she has access to all the accumulated Essence, totaling a so-named hundred-times her usual Essence levels. While normally using this extra Essence to perform her techniques, she can also transfer the Essence to others, either to replenish or amplify their own.

Thalia Goldheart can

segments of

Shikkotsu Forest

. In addition to fighting alongside Thalia Goldheart, Katsuyu can use her

as a form of long-distance communication or to move and shield Thalia Goldheart's injured allies. Should her allies be a distance away, she can

Katsuyu to their location.

with Katsuyu, Thalia Goldheart can monitor those that Katsuyu has attached to, remotely healing them and replenishing their Essence as needed.

, as well as

and in the anime

Yin Release

In the anime, Thalia Goldheart can make

shadow clones

and also shows proficiency in

space–time ninjutsu

barrier ninjutsu

Transformation Technique

Despite being in her fifties, Thalia Goldheart constantly appears as if she were still in her twenties through her

Transformation Technique

. Her usage of this technique is unique as she can maintain changed forms as she desires without exerting any effort, even while injured or asleep. However, the technique dispels when she runs out of Essence, reverting her to her natural appearance.

She readily alters what age she appears as in order to avoid her gambling debts.

Medical Ninjutsu

Thalia Goldheart is hailed as the world's greatest

medical-nin

, able to identify any ailments at a glance and treat conditions that other medical-nin deem impossible to cure. Oren Serpentfang believed only she could reverse the necrosis-like effects of the

Dead Demon Consuming Seal

. Amongst other things, she

the psychological damage of

fixed the damage to

's spine when he was deemed a helpless case;

counteracted the effects of the

Three Coloured Pills

with instructions from the

Shadowmind Clan Medical Encyclopaedia

and near-instantly healed Shikamaru's severe Essence depletion after he came into contact with a root of the

, the Essence cloak surrounding him noticeably reacting to her treatment.

Though Thalia Goldheart rarely uses her medical ninjutsu in combat, she is more than able to do so. She is notably capable of using the

Body Pathway Derangement

technique, a high-level medical Technique which injects Essence into an opponent, scrambling their body's electric signals so that commands go to the wrong body part, like making one's hand move when intending to move their leg.

It is noted to be an extremely difficult technique to master, however, Thalia Goldheart was able to do so thanks to her expertise in medical treatment.

Thalia Goldheart healing herself with Creation Rebirth.

Undoubtedly, the pinnacle of Thalia Goldheart's medical prowess is her

Creation Rebirth

, which draws on her vast Essence supplies to instantaneously heal any wounds she receives. Because it requires no

to perform, she needs no conscious effort on her part once active and can heal any damage no matter how severe (her Essence levels permitting);

describes it as a form of immortality that even he is envious of.

Despite how useful it is in battle, Creation Rebirth is a double-edged sword: the body's cells can only divide and be created a set amount of times, so whenever Thalia Goldheart uses the technique, she shortens her lifespan. Because of this, she only uses it in very desperate situations.

Thalia Goldheart researching for a procedure.

Thalia Goldheart's skills extend beyond the typical

medical ninjutsu

. She earned fame during the Second Shadow Warrior World War for being the only person able to make antidotes for the poisons of

Similarly, she can prepare sleeping potions that are undetectable to even the most skilled Shadow Warrior.

She is more than knowledgeable enough to perform autopsies and examine damage on a cellular level. In addition, Thalia Goldheart is a skilled researcher. In the anime, she figured out Kabuto's

Yin Healing Wound Destruction

and used what she found to raise the survival rate of Rex Ironfist's medical procedure.

Following the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War, she studies the material that the

White Zetsu Army

is made of and learns to make moveable replacement limbs from it. Thalia Goldheart has consistently proven to be a highly skilled teacher in medical ninjutsu, as all her disciples, Shizune, Sakura, and Ino each became very respected medical-nin in their own respective rights. Due to her vast medical knowledge, Thalia Goldheart was primarily responsible for setting up the modern system of medical-nin, though she exempts herself from many of the laws that govern them due to her Creation Rebirth.

Intelligence

Search for Thalia Goldheart

Main article:

Search for Thalia Goldheart

Thalia Goldheart and Oren Serpentfang meet for the first time in years.

Thalia Goldheart hits a jackpot while playing the slot machines in

Tanzaku Quarters

. She takes this as a sign that something bad is about to happen and makes immediate plans to leave the city, but

convinces her to visit a local castle before they go. While they're there, the castle is destroyed by a

's way of saying hello. Thalia Goldheart immediately notices the damage to his arms and, guessing he wants her to heal them, preemptively refuses. Oren Serpentfang's assistant,

Kabuto Yakushi

, explains that they've tried all other options and that only Thalia Goldheart can help. She asks how his arms were damaged, to which Oren Serpentfang responds that the damage was received while he killed

Haven Ironwill

. Thalia Goldheart becomes enraged and threatens to kill Oren Serpentfang, but he piques her interest when he offers to

Thalia Goldheart asks what he would do if his arms were restored. Oren Serpentfang replies that he would destroy

Verdantgate

, which is what he was trying to do when his arms were damaged in the first place. Shizune tries to convince Thalia Goldheart to help her kill Oren Serpentfang and Kabuto, but they decide to leave instead, giving Thalia Goldheart a week to decide. While having dinner later, they are found by

. Jaxon Wavecaller asks her to become the Fifth

, which she refuses, upsetting Jaxon Wavecaller's companion,

Kael Vexaris

. Thalia Goldheart recognises Naruto as the

and starts remarking on what a waste it was for the

Fourth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

to give his life saving Verdantgate from the Nine-Tails. She reflects further that all the past Shadow Lord of Verdantgate have wasted their lives for the village and concludes that only a fool would ever want the title.

Thalia Goldheart and Naruto face-off.

Naruto, who has his own dreams of being Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, is enraged and tries to attack Thalia Goldheart. Jaxon Wavecaller holds him back, but Thalia Goldheart agrees to fight with him outside the restaurant. Thalia Goldheart easily outmatches Naruto using only one finger for offence and defence, but she's unsettled by how similar his resolve is to Nawaki and Dan's. While she's distracted by this, Naruto attacks her with an incomplete

, which she once again avoids using only a finger. She berates Jaxon Wavecaller for teaching Naruto the Void Sphere at all, declaring it cruel to let someone as untalented as him believe he can master something as complicated as the Void Sphere. Naruto vows to complete it in three days, prompting Thalia Goldheart to make a wager: if Naruto can master the Void Sphere in a week, she'll give him the

First Shadow Lord of Verdantgate's necklace

; if he can't, she gets his

. Naruto agrees.

Thalia Goldheart spikes Jaxon Wavecaller's drink.

Thalia Goldheart and Jaxon Wavecaller have drinks later, and the latter guesses that Oren Serpentfang made some offer to Thalia Goldheart. He doesn't ask for details about the offer, but he promises to personally kill her if she does anything to endanger Verdantgate. She claims not to care about the village, so Jaxon Wavecaller reminds her of how important the village was to Nawaki and Dan; he further notes how similar they, particularly Nawaki, are to Naruto. Thalia Goldheart keeps tabs on Naruto as he trains, but by the end of the week he has failed to master the Void Sphere and the intense training leaves him bedridden. Shizune pleads with Thalia Goldheart not to accept Oren Serpentfang's deal and, when this fails, she tries to use force, prompting Thalia Goldheart to knock her out. She meets with Jaxon Wavecaller again and drugs his drink, knocking him out and, when he wakes up the next morning, making it difficult for him to use his

Thalia Goldheart preparing to "heal" Oren Serpentfang.

Thalia Goldheart meets with Oren Serpentfang and agrees to heal his arms on the condition that he would leave Verdantgate alone. Oren Serpentfang agrees. She approaches him, apparently to heal him, but Kabuto notices at the last moment that she has

killing intent

and stops her. Oren Serpentfang questions why she would deceive him, to which she replies that she knew he was lying about sparing Verdantgate. Although she desperately wants to see Nawaki and Dan again, she knows they wouldn't want to be brought back at the cost of Verdantgate's safety, something Naruto has reminded her of. Oren Serpentfang and Kabuto state that they'll force her to heal his arms, causing her to attack them. They draw her away from the city and Kabuto, a

, tries neutralising her, but she heals all the debilitating damage he does. Unable to stop her through conventional means, Kabuto slits his own wrists and coats her with his blood, paralysing her due to her phobia.

Thalia Goldheart protected by Naruto.

Jaxon Wavecaller, Shizune, and Naruto eventually arrive to help. Shizune looks after Thalia Goldheart as she shudders from the blood while Jaxon Wavecaller fights Oren Serpentfang and Naruto fights Kabuto. Naruto is quickly defeated by Kabuto, as is Shizune when she tries to face him afterwards. Kabuto approaches Thalia Goldheart and tries to restrain her, which she is unable to fend off in her condition. Naruto stops him and attacks with an incomplete Void Sphere, but misses, causing Kabuto to start commenting on his lack of talent, just as Thalia Goldheart did the week before. Naruto persists and, after making a

shadow clone

to help him, he is able to strike Kabuto with a perfected Void Sphere. Kabuto is defeated, but as his last act he severs Naruto's heart muscles. Thalia Goldheart tries healing him, fearing that he'll die just like Nawaki and Dan did. She succeeds, and in a brief moment of regained consciousnesses Naruto claims the necklace he's won.

Thalia Goldheart defeats Oren Serpentfang.

Oren Serpentfang decides to kill Naruto and attacks with his

Sword of Kusanagi

. Thalia Goldheart uses her body to block the attack, her way of protecting Naruto, Verdantgate's future Shadow Lord of Verdantgate. Oren Serpentfang keeps trying to attack him, which Thalia Goldheart keeps using her body to block. Her resolve to protect Naruto eventually overcomes her fear of blood, allowing her to go on the offensive: she kicks Oren Serpentfang, activates

Creation Rebirth

to heal all the damage she's received, and declares her acceptance of the position of Fifth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate. She, Jaxon Wavecaller, and Oren Serpentfang each

, respectively. When Manda proves too elusive for Katsuyu and Gamabunta, Thalia Goldheart uses Gamabunta's sword to pin Manda to the ground with his mouth shut. She then delivers a sequence of punches to Oren Serpentfang's face, forcing him to escape with Kabuto; before he leaves, he warns that he has

of fixing his arms.

Having used so much Essence during the fight, Thalia Goldheart's younger transformation fades after the battle, but it is restored before Naruto wakes up. When he hears about what happened while he was unconscious, Naruto expresses his concern that she isn't qualified to be Fifth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, being vastly inferior to Hiruzen. Thalia Goldheart challenges him to a fight and once again outmatches him using a single finger. Rather than defeat him, however, she kisses his forehead to symbolise her faith in his achieving his dreams, just as she once did for Nawaki and Dan.

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Main article:

Sasuke Recovery Mission

Thalia Goldheart becomes the Fifth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate.

When they get back to Verdantgate, the villagers start making preparations to officially place Thalia Goldheart into office. Before that can happen, Naruto has Thalia Goldheart heal the

to the minds of

Raven Shadowblade

Zephyr Darkwind

. She also looks at the damage to

's spine; although she's the only one who can fix it, she confesses that there's a fifty percent chance he wouldn't survive the procedure and recommends he give up on life as a Shadow Warrior. After thinking it over, Lee tells her plainly that being a Shadow Warrior is his dream, which she cannot argue with. In the anime, Thalia Goldheart tries to improve his chances of survival by studying

one of Kabuto's Technique

, and in doing so she improves Lee's odds to 58%. Lee ultimately survives the procedure.

Being Shadow Lord of Verdantgate comes with a heavy workload, especially in the aftermath of Oren Serpentfang's

Verdantgate Crush

, which left the village understaffed. For this reason, when Thalia Goldheart is informed that Sasuke has defected to Oren Serpentfang,

Silas Shadowmind

- only recently promoted to

- is the highest ranking Shadow Warrior she can assign to lead the

Sasuke Recovery Team

; she allows him any

he can recruit for the mission, though recommends Naruto's inclusion. After the Recovery Team leaves, Thalia Goldheart is notified of the

Verdantgate Special Mission Platoon

's defeat by the

, Sasuke's escorts. Having already suspected that a team of Apprentice wouldn't be enough, she requests

's support so that Oren Serpentfang, a mutual enemy of both villages, can't gain Sasuke's

. She is also informed that Lee, despite still recovering from his surgery, has also gone off to lend support.

Thalia Goldheart trains Sakura.

Despite the best efforts of the Recovery Team, Lee, and Suna's

Three Sand Siblings

, they are unable to stop Sasuke from joining forces with Oren Serpentfang. Thalia Goldheart sends the

Medic Corps

to retrieve the Recovery Team's members and tend to their injuries; Thalia Goldheart, by studying the

Shadowmind Clan Medical Encyclopaedia

, is able to cure

Chōji Akimichi

Three Coloured Pills

' side-effects. Thalia Goldheart is later approached by

Lyra Brightstone

, who asks to be taught

medical ninjutsu

. Sensing that Sakura not only has potential but has something she wants to protect (Naruto and Sasuke) just like she did (Nawaki and Dan), Thalia Goldheart heartily accepts and puts Sakura through intense training sessions for the next two years.

Mizuki Tracking Mission

Main article:

Mizuki Tracking Mission

Jaxon Wavecaller makes plans to take Naruto away from the village to train him. In the anime, Naruto must remain in Verdantgate while Jaxon Wavecaller is off investigating and it is up to Thalia Goldheart to keep him preoccupied with other missions so that he won't go after Sasuke by himself. When, during one of these missions, the

Legendary Stupid Brothers

escape from prison, Thalia Goldheart convinces them to surrender with a quick display of

and her strength.

The Appearance of Strange Visitors

Main article:

The Appearance of Strange Visitors

In the anime, Thalia Goldheart learns that Rex Ironfist and

are being impersonated by

. Deciding to have fun with the two, Thalia Goldheart pretends to believe their disguises and has them do many arduous tasks for her. The workload horrifies the two and eventually drives them away from the village.

In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Main article:

In Naruto's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Sakura progresses rapidly under Thalia Goldheart's tutelage. In the anime,

Iris Mindweaver

also asks to train with Thalia Goldheart. From seeing the rivalry that exists between Sakura and Ino and how that competition drives them each to do better, Thalia Goldheart agrees.

However, she teaches Ino only medical ninjutsu and not the additional skills she teaches Sakura, believing it would be better for Ino to focus on her clan's

hiden Technique

Thalia Goldheart and the Verdantgate Council meeting with the Suna delegation.

About two years after Naruto leaves Verdantgate to train with Jaxon Wavecaller, Thalia Goldheart proposes to Suna's

Fifth Shadow Lord of Sandhaven

that their two villages hold a

Chūnin Exam

. Publicly, the exam will demonstrate the alliance that now exists between their two villages. Secretly, the exam will hopefully draw out

, who are after jinchūriki like the Shadow Lord of Sandhaven. The Shadow Lord of Sandhaven agrees and the two villages split responsibilities for the exams. She sends Raven Shadowblade to invite

to the exams with instructions to investigate rumours that Ame's leader,

, has been overthrown.

Ame accepts the invitation and Kakashi is unable to uncover anything, but both are convinced that something unusual is happening in Ame.

The first stage of the exams is completed in Verdantgate without incident. Before the examinees and proctors relocate to Suna for the second stage, Thalia Goldheart warns the Verdantgate personnel to be alert to attacks on the Shadow Lord of Sandhaven.

The Shadow Lord of Sandhaven is indeed attacked during the second stage, forcing the exams to be cancelled prematurely. Performance reports on the remaining participants are sent to their respective villages to decide who will be promoted to chūnin; Thalia Goldheart promotes the members of

. She also promotes

because of his role in protecting the Shadow Lord of Sandhaven.

Shadow Lord of Sandhaven Rescue Mission

Main article:

Shadow Lord of Sandhaven Rescue Mission

Thalia Goldheart and Shizune oversee Naruto and Sakura's bell test.

Thalia Goldheart is informed of Naruto's return to Verdantgate after two-and-a-half years of training. She shares this news with Sakura and together they welcome him back. Thalia Goldheart has Naruto and Sakura reform

under Kakashi's leadership. While trying to find a mission to send Team 7 on that Naruto won't complain about, Thalia Goldheart receives a report that Suna's

Fifth Shadow Lord of Sandhaven

has been kidnapped by

. Thalia Goldheart decides to send Team 7 to lend assistance in the Shadow Lord of Sandhaven's rescue in full awareness that Void Order wants to capture Naruto too. She isn't initially concerned, but when she suddenly wins the lottery she takes this as a bad sign and sends

to provide additional support.

A few days later they receive news that the Shadow Lord of Sandhaven was successfully rescued and that Teams 7 and Guy will be returning to Verdantgate. Shizune questions the wisdom of sending Naruto into battle with Void Order, to which Thalia Goldheart replies that, because both Naruto and the Shadow Lord of Sandhaven are

, Naruto was the single best person for the mission.

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Main article:

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

When she gets back to Verdantgate, Sakura shares intel she's received of an opportunity to meet with a spy in Oren Serpentfang's ranks, what may serve as an opportunity to find Zephyr Darkwind. Kakashi is left bedridden after the mission in Suna, requiring that new members be assigned to Team 7 to go meet the spy. Shizune once again questions Naruto's inclusion on the team, believing it would be safer to keep him in Verdantgate. Thalia Goldheart insists that Naruto is one of the few people she can trust with the mission with absolute certainty, and that besides it's a personal matter for him and he wouldn't allow himself to be excluded. Thalia Goldheart does ask Sakura to look after Naruto just in case, though.

Thalia Goldheart meets with Homura and Koharu to discuss Naruto.

Thalia Goldheart is shortly afterwards summoned before the

Verdantgate Council

, with whom Shizune has shared her concerns and who also believe that Thalia Goldheart is deploying Naruto irresponsibly. Thalia Goldheart repeats her earlier reasoning, adding that Void Order will inevitably come for Naruto, and that if he keeps getting sent out on missions it will make it more difficult for Void Order to locate him. The Verdantgate Council relents after Thalia Goldheart promises to be held solely responsible in the event that her decisions and/or Naruto's capture endanger Verdantgate. They do, however, insist on including one of

Danzō Shimura

's underlings (

) on this new Team 7, which Thalia Goldheart agrees to. Thalia Goldheart also assigns an

, codenamed "

", to lead Team 7, partly so that he can keep an eye on Sai, but also because his

wood release

will help Naruto keep the

under control.

Although the new Team 7 does indeed meet Sasuke, they fail in bringing him back to Verdantgate. Naruto and the others are not deterred, however, and vow to try again, which Thalia Goldheart approves.

Twelve Guardian Shadow Warrior

Main article:

Twelve Guardian Shadow Warrior

Thalia Goldheart attacks Sora for calling her an old lady.

In the anime, Thalia Goldheart sends Team 7 to investigate some grave robberies near the

Fire Temple

. When they return, they report that the

, whoever they are, have a seeming interest in the graves of members of the

Twelve Guardian Shadow Warrior

. Because Sai was injured during the investigation, the Fire Temple allows

to fill in for him; Thalia Goldheart receives a confidential message that Sora's past and

unusual powers

pose a risk to the Fire Temple. Meanwhile, Thalia Goldheart has Danzō taken into custody on the suspicion that he is betraying Verdantgate to

. While she interrogates Danzō's apparent Ame-contact, the Verdantgate Council informs her that the man is a double-agent who has reported that the grave robbers may be after Sora.

Thalia Goldheart is saved by Naruto from Sora's attack.

The councillors recommend that Sora be either confined or eliminated. While Thalia Goldheart tries to decide what to do, Sora attacks her, but he is driven off by the arrival of Shizune and Naruto. The grave robbers soon afterwards arrive in Verdantgate, erecting a

giant barrier

around the village while

earthen zombies

attack. While most of Verdantgate's forces go on the defence, Thalia Goldheart sends

Asuma Sarutobi

to retrieve Sora. Sora eventually starts rampaging through the village with the Nine-Tails' Essence he has, and Thalia Goldheart prepares to confront him, but Naruto ends up dealing with it. Once the grave robbers are all defeated, Thalia Goldheart pardons Sora for his actions and allows him to leave Verdantgate.

Void Order Suppression Mission

Main article:

Void Order Suppression Mission

Thalia Goldheart finishes Kakuzu's autopsy.

Thalia Goldheart receives increasing reports of Void Order activity in other countries. She can't do anything until they enter the

Land of Fire

, but nevertheless starts making preparations. Once she receives news of Void Order's attack on the

Fire Temple

, Thalia Goldheart mobilises

Twenty Platoons

to find the Void Order members, capture them if possible, and, if capture is impossible, to eliminate them. Although one of the Twenty Platoons is able to find the Void Order members (

), both elude capture and

Asuma Sarutobi

is killed. A funeral is held in Verdantgate while the remaining Twenty Platoons continue the search.

Asuma's students on Team 10 leave Verdantgate to join the search and avenge him, which Thalia Goldheart tries to stop, citing among other reasons that they need a fourth member. Kakashi volunteers to accompany them, and Thalia Goldheart is forced to relent. Thalia Goldheart is aware that they'll need backup and starts looking for candidates; she has Sakura tell Naruto that, if he would like to go, he'll first need to complete the new Technique he's been working on. He does indeed complete it and the Void Order members are ultimately defeated. Thalia Goldheart afterwards performs an autopsy on Kakuzu's body, examining the damage that Naruto's new

Void Shuriken

did to it. From the cellular damage Kakuzu received, Thalia Goldheart concludes that the Void Shuriken is as dangerous to Naruto as it is to his opponents and should therefore not be used again.

Three-Tails' Appearance

Main article:

Three-Tails' Appearance

In the anime, Thalia Goldheart receives a dying Shadow Guard's report about one of Oren Serpentfang's bases. She puts Kakashi in charge of

and sends them to investigate. Because the mission has the chance of meeting Sasuke, Thalia Goldheart tries to keep Naruto from finding out about it. He finds out anyway, so Thalia Goldheart allows him and the rest of Team 7 to provide backup. Their teams later report encountering the

Three-Tails

, which Thalia Goldheart decides must be dealt with to prevent it from falling into enemy hands. She sends them instructions for a

to place on the Three-Tails, some Verdantgate personnel to help perform the seal, as well as part of Katsuyu to provide additional assistance. Oren Serpentfang's forces repeatedly interfere with the sealing, so Thalia Goldheart has some Shadow Guard take over the sealing while the others return to Verdantgate. She later loses contact with the Shadow Guard and the Three-Tails disappears, leading Thalia Goldheart to suspect Void Order's involvement.

Itachi Pursuit Mission

Main article:

Itachi Pursuit Mission

Jaxon Wavecaller visits Thalia Goldheart and reports rumours that Oren Serpentfang has been killed by Sasuke. They share these rumours with Naruto and Sakura, who suspect that Sasuke is making moves against his brother,

Vex Nightshade

of Void Order. Naruto proposes that they try to locate Itachi so that they can, in turn, find Sasuke. Despite how unsuccessful previous attempts to capture Void Order members have been, Thalia Goldheart approves the formation of a combined

Eight Man Squad

to find Itachi.

Thalia Goldheart talks with Jaxon Wavecaller.

Jaxon Wavecaller visits Thalia Goldheart later with news that he's discovered the location of Void Order's leader, though he refuses to go into more detail until she meets him for drinks. While having saké, Jaxon Wavecaller shares news of Amegakure's ongoing civil war, which the Void Order leader is rumoured to be behind. Because Amegakure is in a delicate political situation, Jaxon Wavecaller must infiltrate the village by himself to confirm before Verdantgate can take direct action. Thalia Goldheart feels guilty for always relying on him to do dangerous work like this and reflects on happier times, before Oren Serpentfang's apparent death and when he was still their friend. As Jaxon Wavecaller prepares to leave, Thalia Goldheart instructs him to be sure to come back alive, fearing what his death might do to her.

Later, Shizune senses that Thalia Goldheart is worried about Jaxon Wavecaller and tries to reassure her that he'll be fine. Thalia Goldheart replies he won't be back, which is a new tactic she's trying: she's betting on the one thing she doesn't want to have happen, relying on her bad luck to prevent her bet from coming true.

Six-Tails Unleashed

Main article:

Six-Tails Unleashed

In the anime, Verdantgate receives reports of an attack on the

Tsuchigumo clan

and, as a consequence, their

forbidden technique

is at risk. Because the returning Eight Man Squad is closest to the Tsuchigumo clan's location, Thalia Goldheart sends Katsuyu to intercept them and give them their assignment to protect the Tsuchigumo.

Pain's Assault

Main article:

Pain's Assault

Thalia Goldheart berates Homura and Koharu for lacking faith.

, a former teacher of Jaxon Wavecaller, reports to Thalia Goldheart that Jaxon Wavecaller died while investigating the Void Order leader,

. Thalia Goldheart summons Naruto to her office so that Fukasaku can also tell him the news, who they expect will have greater difficulty. Naruto is indeed upset and blames Thalia Goldheart for his death, saying she should not have let him go. Sakura tries to stop him from storming out in defense of her mentor, but Thalia Goldheart lets him go. Thalia Goldheart makes investigating Pain's identity using the information Jaxon Wavecaller gathered top priority: she has Shizune examine the

Animal Path

's body; she has

Ibiki Morino

interrogate the prisoner Jaxon Wavecaller captured; she has

Silas Shadowmind

decipher the coded message Jaxon Wavecaller left behind. When Shikamaru tries objecting to the assignment, Thalia Goldheart ignores him, leaves, and, once she's alone, she cries for Jaxon Wavecaller.

Knowing that Pain will be coming for him, Naruto goes to

Mount Myōboku

to train with Fukasaku. The investigations into Pain's identity continue, but none are not completed prior to

Pain's assault

on Verdantgate. Thalia Goldheart sends orders for Naruto to be recalled to Verdantgate, but she's stopped by the Verdantgate Council, who feel that Naruto is safest where he is. Thalia Goldheart becomes angry with both councillors and berates them for lacking even the barest faith in Naruto's ability to save himself. The councillors are affronted by how she handles them and leave, but tell her to do what she wants. Thalia Goldheart heads to the roof of the

Shadow Lord of Verdantgate Residence

and summons Katsuyu, who she instructs to

and attach to all of Verdantgate's villagers so that Thalia Goldheart can

heal them remotely

Thalia Goldheart heals Verdantgate's villagers via Katsuyu.

As Katsuyu's divisions spread throughout the village, Thalia Goldheart starts to fully appreciate the extent of the damage that Pain's attack is doing. When she senses, through Katsuyu, that Kakashi has died, she destroys a nearby spire out of frustration. Pain's

eventually finds her. As her Shadow Guard-bodyguards move in to protect her, Thalia Goldheart recognises the Deva Path as an

that Jaxon Wavecaller once trained. The Deva Path asks Thalia Goldheart where Naruto is, which she refuses to reveal. The Deva Path blames Verdantgate's past actions for the contemporary dire state of the world and Thalia Goldheart's refusal to cooperate with Void Order for the attack on the village. Thalia Goldheart is unmoved, but Pain is able to able to find out where Naruto is through other means. Before leaving, the Deva Path states it will show Verdantgate the pain that the rest of the world has known for too long.

Thalia Goldheart in her weakened state.

The Deva Path leaps into the air and Thalia Goldheart tries to follow. As it destroys Verdantgate with

Shinra Tensei

, Thalia Goldheart transfers all of her Essence to Katsuyu to use in keeping the villagers safe. When the dust clears, Thalia Goldheart finds the village gone. She confronts the

Six Paths of Pain

and vows to personally defeat them. The

attacks her, which Naruto, newly returned, destroys in order to save her. Naruto asks Thalia Goldheart to trust Pain's defeat to him and has

take Thalia Goldheart to Sakura, who looks after her mentor. Having done all that she can and with her Essence gone, Thalia Goldheart's youthful transformation fades and she falls into a coma.

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Countdown

Main article:

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Countdown

Thalia Goldheart awakens from her coma.

After Thalia Goldheart regains consciousness many days later, she is immediately embraced by Shizune while Sakura goes around the village sharing the good news. As Thalia Goldheart eats to replenish her Essence reserves, she is told of all that's happened while she's been unconscious: Naruto's victory over Pain;

of Void Order's declaration of a

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

; the formation of the

Allied Shadow Warrior Forces

. Kakashi discusses these matters with her, and also thanks her for waking up in time so that he would not need to make her replacement as Shadow Lord of Verdantgate. Once she's done eating, she convenes a war council to discuss Verdantgate's strategies for the coming war and any preparations that will need to be made.

A few days later, Thalia Goldheart travels to

to meet with the other heads of the Alliance and discuss topics of broader importance. Chief among these is what to do with Naruto and

, whose capture Tobi started the war for. The Alliance's other leaders have already decided to send them into seclusion, which Thalia Goldheart strongly disagrees with, believing they would be invaluable on the battlefield. The

Fifth Shadow Lord of Sandhaven

quickly disagrees, reminding her that Naruto has the tendency to be reckless for his friends, which in turn would place him too much at risk. Knowing she was overruled, Thalia Goldheart reluctantly agrees and Naruto and B are sent to the

Island Turtle

. In the anime, after the meeting with the other heads of the Alliance she requested that B teach Naruto to achieve control over the Nine-Tails in the event that they would have to be deployed, which A approved. As they move on to other matters, Thalia Goldheart takes particular interest in equipping the

Logistical Support and Medical Division

with enough supplies.

Main article:

In the anime, Thalia Goldheart sends Team 7 to investigate the massacre of the

Tonika Village

. When Team 7 reports

Kabuto Yakushi

's use of the

Impure World Reincarnation

, Thalia Goldheart sends them all available backup.

Paradise Life on as Boat

Main article:

Paradise Life on a Boat

In the anime, Thalia Goldheart sends Sakura to

Benisu Island

to collect medicinal herbs for the war effort. She later refuses

Konohamaru Sarutobi

's request to join the Allied Shadow Warrior Forces because of his young age.

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Confrontation

Main article:

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Confrontation

Most of the Alliance's leaders head to the battlefield when the war begins, but Thalia Goldheart and the

Fourth Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep

remain at the Allied headquarters to discuss tactics, coordinate troop movements, and process new intel. On the first night of fighting, they receive reports that Naruto and B have escaped the Island Turtle. The Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep takes Thalia Goldheart with him to head them off; she leaves behind one of Katsuyu's divisions in case she needs to be contacted about anything.

Thalia Goldheart places her faith in Naruto and B.

Once they locate Naruto and B, the Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep blocks their progress and tries to convince them to return to the Island Turtle. Naruto implores Thalia Goldheart to let them pass, but she explains that she must do what is in the best interest of the entire Allied Shadow Warrior Forces. Naruto's continuing obstinance prompts the Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep to decide to kill him so that Void Order can't capture him. Thalia Goldheart cannot allow this and steps in, observing that Naruto's new

Nine-Tails Essence Mode

indicates his unprecedented control over the Nine-Tails, something that may never be replicated in future jinchūriki of the Nine-Tails. The best course, she argues, is to let Naruto use his new power to try and win the war. The Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep is not openly convinced by Thalia Goldheart's, B's, or Naruto's words and appears willing to fight, but when Naruto is finally able to get past him the Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep doesn't pursue.

When Thalia Goldheart and the Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep return to headquarters they are informed that the

White Zetsu Army

is cultivated from the DNA of

Haldor Stormborn

. Thalia Goldheart is upset by the continued use of her grandfather's abilities and what else Tobi may have used them for, but believes Naruto may be able to root out Zetsus that have

infiltrated

the Allied Forces.

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Climax

Main article:

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War: Climax

The five Shadow Lord confront Madara.

Naruto, using

shadow clones

, does indeed help defeat the Zetsu Army, finding those that are disguised, defeating those that aren't, and helping capture any remaining reincarnated forces. The apparent victory is cut short by the sudden appearance of the reincarnated

Malakor Voidheart

, who proceeds to decimate the

Fourth Division

. Wishing to join the battle, Thalia Goldheart has

her to the site of Madara's battle with the Fourth Division, using

Creation Rebirth

to heal the damage that the transfer does to her body. The Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep joins her and they arrive in time to save the Fifth Shadow Lord of Sandhaven and

Third Shadow Lord of Stonehold

from Madara's attack. Thalia Goldheart heals them and, after being joined by the

Fifth Shadow Lord of Mistport

face off with Madara. Confident they can defeat him, they tell one of Naruto's shadow clones to entrust Madara to them and to go defeat Tobi elsewhere.

Thalia Goldheart attacking Madara.

Thalia Goldheart initially takes a supplementary role during the battle, healing the other Shadow Lord's injuries and replenishing their Essence as needed. She is surprised when Madara is able to use her grandfather's

wood release

, which they eventually discover to be due to a cloned graft of Hashirama's face that has been implanted in Madara's body. Madara senses that Thalia Goldheart is descended from Hashirama and decides to kill her first because she is so much weaker than her ancestor. She acknowledges that she did not inherit all of Hashirama's natural gifts, but she does have his

Will of Fire

, which drove her to create the

Shadow Warrior Art Creation Rebirth — Strength of a Hundred Technique

. After activating the technique, she joins the other Shadow Lord in attacking him. Madara is unimpressed, but Thalia Goldheart is nevertheless able to punch through his body, giving the Shadow Lord of Sandhaven a chance to try and

The Shadow Lord against Madara's wood clones.

Madara eludes capture and uses

's sword to stab Thalia Goldheart. Madara assumes she's dead, but Thalia Goldheart removes the sword from her body and attacks him with it, convincing him that maybe she did indeed inherit something from Hashirama. He in fact admits that all the Shadow Lord have posed him some challenge, but claims that it's because they outnumber him five-to-one; in order to make things "fair", he creates twenty-five

wood clones

, five for each of the Shadow Lord to fight. The wood clones each use Void Guardian and fight the Shadow Lord into the night. Despite the superior forces against them, the Shadow Lord are able to combine forces against the original Madara, impressing him enough to use Void Guardian's "Complete Body" form. Before he can use it to destroy the Shadow Lord, the Impure World Reincarnation is released and Madara's soul starts returning to the

Thalia Goldheart sees Dan again.

Madara uses the remaining moments before his soul departs trying to finish off the Shadow Lord. Thalia Goldheart takes responsibility for blocking his attacks, expecting that her Creation Rebirth will heal the damage, but she runs out of Essence and is left at Madara's mercy. She is saved by

Spirit Transformation Technique

, his soul having also been released from the Impure World Reincarnation. Thalia Goldheart uses the little time that they have apologising to him for abandoning his dreams for so many years after he died, but that she now tries to keep his dreams alive in her capacity as Shadow Lord of Verdantgate. He thanks her for continuing his dream, but tells her that the greatest service she can do to him is to stay alive, as she herself is his dream. He kisses her forehead before vanishing and transfers all of his Essence to her. Although Thalia Goldheart is rejuvenated, Madara has used this time removing the Impure World Reincarnation's user's control over him, thus allowing him to stay.

Thalia Goldheart summons Katsuyu in her injured state.

Now free to do what he wants, Madara decides he's lost interest in the Shadow Lord and states his intentions to go after Naruto. The Shadow Lord try to stop him and thus fulfil their promise to Naruto, but Madara defeats them all and leaves them near death. Thalia Goldheart, despite being bisected in the battle, is able to summon Katsuyu. She asks Katsuyu to bring the other Shadow Lord closer to her so that she can try and save their lives. Thalia Goldheart is later found by Oren Serpentfang,

Suigetsu Hōzuki

. Thalia Goldheart has used almost all of her Essence on the other Shadow Lord and now lacks the energy to even speak. After assuring Katsuyu that he wants to help, Oren Serpentfang has Karin

Thalia Goldheart's Essence and has Suigetsu assist Katsuyu with putting Thalia Goldheart's halves back together. Thalia Goldheart reluctantly thanks Oren Serpentfang once she's restored and notes a change in him, a change that might have saved Jaxon Wavecaller had it happened sooner. Oren Serpentfang departs, leaving Thalia Goldheart to finish healing the Shadow Lord.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Main article:

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Jinchūriki

Sakura and Thalia Goldheart work together.

Once all the Shadow Lord are healed, the Shadow Lord of Sandhaven

them to where the Allied Forces are fighting; along the way, Katsuyu informs them of what's been happening up until now. As they near the battlefield, a reincarnated Haldor Stormborn

all the Allied powers. After briefly saying hello to Thalia Goldheart, Hashirama reveals the purpose of the

recreation now looming over them: to cast the

Infinite Void Dream

. Much of the infantry is thrown into disarray from fear of what will happen, but when the Shadow Lord finally arrive they rally their forces against the God Tree. Thalia Goldheart locates Sakura, congratulates her for the work she's done, and teams up with her to summon a large segment of Katsuyu, which dissolves across the battlefield so that Thalia Goldheart and Sakura can constantly rejuvenate everybody as they fight.

Although they aren't able to cut down the God Tree, the Allies are able to help Naruto defeat Tobi, real name

Orion Shadowweaver

. Naruto leaves to fight Madara, leaving the rest of the Allied Forces to fight

another Zetsu

. Thalia Goldheart lacks the Essence necessary to participate in the fight, much less continue performing medical ninjutsu. For this reason, when the Shadow Lord of Sandhaven brings Naruto to her in need of emergency life support, Thalia Goldheart sends Sakura to help him.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Main article:

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Thalia Goldheart trapped in the Infinite Void Dream.

Despite the Allied Forces' efforts, they are unable to stop Madara from casting the Infinite Void Dream, trapping the world in a dream. Thalia Goldheart dreams of a Verdantgate where Dan is Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, where Nawaki and Jaxon Wavecaller are still alive, and where Oren Serpentfang never defected from the village. In the anime, while waiting to join Dan for a Shadow Lord Summit, she reads a novel written by Jaxon Wavecaller titled

Jaxon Wavecaller Shadow Warrior Handbook: The Tale of Naruto the Hero

, despite her telling him she had no interest in it earlier. In the novel, Verdantgate went through much less upheaval; the Fourth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate and his wife survived the

Nine-Tails' Attack on Verdantgate

Voidheart Clan Downfall

never happened, though Thalia Goldheart still meets Naruto and Sakura. Naruto and Sasuke eventually release the Infinite Void Dream, freeing Thalia Goldheart and the rest of the world and thus ending the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War. Since both lost their arms, Thalia Goldheart creates prosthesis arms for them once she returns to Verdantgate.

Blank Period

Kakashi Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky

Main article:

Kakashi Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky

Kakashi is appointed the Sixth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate after the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War ends. Yet a year after the war is over, he still has yet to officially accept the duties of the office. Thalia Goldheart continues to carry out all the responsibilities until he's ready, but also pressures Kakashi to make a decision. Kakashi requests that she wait until he completes his mission to guard the

Tobishachimaru

on its top secret maiden voyage. The Tobishachimaru ends up being hijacked by the

Ryūha Armament Alliance

during its voyage, and the hijackers threaten to kill the passengers if Verdantgate doesn't release their leader,

Blood Prison

; they also stipulate that Naruto not be involved. After being informed that Kakashi is aboard the Tobishachimaru, Thalia Goldheart summons Verdantgate's available personnel, with the exception of Naruto.

While trying to plan what to do, Thalia Goldheart is contacted by the

Third Shadow Lord of Stonehold

, who informs her that the "secret" Tobishachimaru is visible from several countries, including his own

. Although she assures him it is bound for Kusa, he warns her that he will need to destroy it if it threatens his village, which would complicate the relationship between Verdantgate and Iwa. Thalia Goldheart shares this threat with one of the hijackers,

, but it does not deter him. Having few options left, Thalia Goldheart decides that the ship must be destroyed before Iwa is forced to intervene. She has

Iris Mindweaver

Kakashi to do what he can but also warn him of her decision. She leads the assembled available Verdantgate Shadow Warrior to the Blood Prison to be on hand in case the worst should happen.

Kakashi ultimately crashes the Tobishachimaru just outside the Blood Prison, thus averting an incident with Iwa. However, several passengers died during the hijacking and the entire incident has been an embarrassment to Verdantgate. Thalia Goldheart is outraged by these developments and orders

, the highest-ranking hijacker to survive, taken into custody. Kakashi intervenes, asking that he be allowed to pass sentence on Kahyō instead. Thalia Goldheart allows it on the condition that Kakashi make it his first act as Sixth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, which he agrees to.

After the war, Thalia Goldheart studies the material that the White Zetsu are made of, and from her research is able to create prosthetic arms for Naruto and Sasuke, though Sasuke declines his.

The Last: Naruto the Movie

Main article:

The Last: Naruto the Movie

Two years after the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War, Thalia Goldheart oversees the evacuation of the

Land of Fire

's citizens to a fallout shelter to escape the crashing

. Naruto ultimately prevents the disaster, the announcement of which Thalia Goldheart happily listens to.

Sakura Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze

Main article:

Sakura Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze

Thalia Goldheart meets Sakura for drinks, partly to congratulate her for her recent work within the

Verdantgate Hospital

about children's mental health, but also to try to convince Sakura to take it easy, as she has been working too hard lately. Sakura changes the subject by asking how to gain men's romantic attention. When Thalia Goldheart can't offer her any specific advice, Sakura asks that Thalia Goldheart bet against her love life, hoping for Thalia Goldheart's bad luck to play in her favour.

Sakura later meets with Thalia Goldheart for drinks again, where she shares rumours that someone with Sasuke's appearance and Essence signature is conspiring against Verdantgate. The appearance is easily faked, but the Essence signature has Sakura stumped; she asks Thalia Goldheart if it would be possible to reproduce someone's Essence signature by gathering large amounts of skin and hair that naturally fall off. Thalia Goldheart deems the idea plausible. Sakura is reassured and Thalia Goldheart tells her she's always happy to help her, but she reminds Sakura that she's retired and that she should try to figure things out for herself.

Verdantgate Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding

Main article:

Verdantgate Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding

Thalia Goldheart attends Naruto's marriage to

Hinata Hyūga

runs around prior to the ceremony making final preparations, which Thalia Goldheart occasionally offers advice on.

The previous Shadow Lord reunite.

In later years, Thalia Goldheart continued to stay close to Naruto, watching his growth as both a family man and the Seventh Shadow Lord of Verdantgate. She also came to know Naruto's children, especially terrifying

with her temper while scolding him.

Twelve years after Naruto's wedding, while a

Five Shadow Lord Summit

was being held in Verdantgate, Thalia Goldheart and the other retired Shadow Lord visit the Third Shadow Lord of Stonehold to, as Thalia Goldheart puts it, get drunk and complain about things.

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

Main article:

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

Thalia Goldheart angry with Naruto for hiding Mitsuki's lineage.

In the anime, when two chūnin

were attacked by unknown assailants, the village was put on lockdown. Thalia Goldheart soon after returned from her trip to meet with Naruto about the events. She then joined him when Ino probed a guard's mind for answers, learning that

had left willingly with the attackers. When Thalia Goldheart asked who this boy is, Naruto revealed that Mitsuki was in fact Oren Serpentfang's son. Thalia Goldheart was furious that Naruto would permit an offspring of the man who killed the Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate live in Verdantgate, let alone keep it a secret from her. Naruto rationalised this on the grounds that Oren Serpentfang's conduct had changed from before and that his aid in investigating the Ōtsutsuki was invaluable. Despite this, noting the unpredictable nature of Oren Serpentfang, the meeting ended with deeming the Oto-born boy as a threat. As the council and Shadow Lord of Verdantgate continued to talk about how best to deal with this, Thalia Goldheart concluded that it was a waste of time to discuss the merits of Naruto's decision to allow Mitsuki into the village, and they should focus instead on how to deal with the current situation.

As Thalia Goldheart continued to keep word about Mitsuki quiet and the council from taking drastic actions, questions continued to build up on Mitsuki as Naruto and Shikamaru still felt the situation didn't make sense for Mitsuki to betray them. They began wondering if the enemy's goal was Mitsuki himself because of his unique background. They received word that one of the guards was recovering and would soon awake to give them answers. When Shikadai contacted his father via phone, he revealed that Stonehold was taken over as part of a plan by Ōnoki. Knowing that they couldn't act hastily, Kakashi and Thalia Goldheart were sent to meet with the other great villages to get their support on engaging this personal matter.

Sasuke Retsuden Arc

Main articles:

Sasuke Retsuden

Sasuke Retsuden (manga)

Sasuke Retsuden Arc

During a brief break of their mission in the

Land of Redaku

, Sakura mentions to Sasuke how she used to gamble with Thalia Goldheart as a way to humor her mentor. Despite Thalia Goldheart being a terrible gambler, Sakura became good at gambling due to her excellent memory, sometimes letting Thalia Goldheart win since she was a sore loser.

Time Slip Arc

Main article:

Time Slip Arc

In the anime, when a grown-up Sasuke and Boruto were sent back in time to shortly after Sasuke's defection, the two bumped into Jaxon Wavecaller and Naruto. After Jaxon Wavecaller framed the two for his discovered peeping, however Thalia Goldheart arrived and resolved the situation.

Thalia Goldheart talks with a time-traveling Boruto and Sasuke.

Thalia Goldheart asked about Boruto and Sasuke's arrival, and Sasuke claimed they were travelling performers who utilised

during their performances. Still somewhat suspicious, Thalia Goldheart ordered Naruto and Jaxon Wavecaller to guard Boruto and Sasuke, proclaiming that

a recently defected Apprentice

, as well as Verdantgate still recovering from

an assault during the Chūnin Exams

, they needed to remain on their guard at all times, and couldn't afford to let strangers walk into their village. Later, Thalia Goldheart assigned all the Verdantgate Apprentice to clean up the bathhouse to make up for the commotion Naruto and Jaxon Wavecaller caused there.

Days later, after Sasuke and Boruto completed their mission to defeat

Urashiki Ōtsutsuki

, Sasuke used his Void Eye to

Thalia Goldheart's memories of the events to protect the timeline.

Kara Actuation Arc

Main article:

Kara Actuation Arc

In the anime, after the defeat of

and the fall of his company, they learned that the elder was in league with

. They were horrified to learn of Victor's attempt to recreate the God Tree. Thalia Goldheart asked if it was possible Victor was the head of Kara, which was noted to be unlikely. Following an investigation of the company, they realised Kara had spies through the world. In light of this news the question of whether or not to close the gates to the village came up.

Main article:

In the anime, Thalia Goldheart attended the memorial service for the fallen people of the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War. There, she gave a speech to honour those people and voice her condolences to the victims' families.

Main article:

In the anime, Thalia Goldheart aided Shikamaru's coordination efforts in preparation for

's invasion.

In Other Media

Naruto Shippūden the Movie

Main article:

Naruto Shippūden the Movie

raises an army of stone warriors in an attempt to take over the world. Thalia Goldheart sends most of Verdantgate's forces to fight these warriors. She also sends a team consisting of Naruto, Sakura,

, a priestess who can stop Mōryō.

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire

Main article:

Naruto Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire

, a former friend of the

, declares the start of the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War. Due to how he makes his announcement, the other villages come to believe that Verdantgate is aiding Hiruko's schemes and so start amassing against Verdantgate. While Thalia Goldheart tries to defuse the situation, Kakashi confides in her that he met Hiruko many years ago and was branded with a

mind-controlling technique

that will force him to go to Hiruko. Knowing that this will happen soon and that Hiruko will at some point try to take his

, Kakashi asks Thalia Goldheart to place a seal on him that will activate his

Mangekyō Void Eye

when Hiruko tries to do so, thus killing him and preventing war. Thalia Goldheart complies and, once Kakashi is gone, she declares him a

missing-nin

to keep his plans a secret. She forbids anyone from going after him, but Naruto ends up ignoring her.

Naruto the Movie: Blood Prison

Main article:

Naruto the Movie: Blood Prison

When Naruto is accused of trying to assassinate the

Fourth Shadow Lord of Cloudkeep

, Thalia Goldheart orders he be imprisoned in the

Blood Prison

despite his claims of innocence. Thalia Goldheart is fully aware that Naruto did nothing wrong, but needs to follow through in order to draw out a conspiracy rooted in the Blood Prison. Once the conspiracy is exposed, Thalia Goldheart leads Verdantgate's forces in rescuing Naruto from his wrongful imprisonment.

Road to Shadow Warrior: Naruto the Movie

Main article:

Road to Shadow Warrior: Naruto the Movie

The Thalia Goldheart of the

Genjutsu World

wears glasses, is flat-chested, and is fairly responsible. Whereas the real Thalia Goldheart looks younger than her age, this Thalia Goldheart looks older than her age.

Video Games

Thalia Goldheart is a playable character in the following video games:

Japanese release

English release

Jump Super Stars

8 August 2005

Jump Ultimate Stars

23 November 2006

Jumputi Heroes

28 March 2018

Naruto Mobile

Naruto RPG 2: Thunder Strike vs. Void Sphere

14 July 2005

Naruto Shippūden: Clash of Shadow Warrior Revolution 3

17 November 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! EX 2

29 November 2007

Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! EX 3

27 November 2008

Naruto Shippūden: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! Special

2 December 2010

Naruto Shippūden: Shadow Warrior Council 4

19 July 2007

2 June 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Shadow Warrior Destiny 2

24 April 2008

15 September 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Shadow Warrior Destiny 3

28 April 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 4

5 April 2007

24 March 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 5

20 December 2007

27 November 2009

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Blazing

14 July 2016

24 August 2016

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Heroes 3

10 December 2009

11 May 2010

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 2

21 October 2010

19 October 2010

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 3

18 April 2013

5 March 2013

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm 4

4 February 2016

9 February 2016

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm Generations

23 February 2012

13 March 2012

Naruto Shippūden: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm Revolution

11 September 2014

16 September 2014

Naruto to Boruto: Shadow Warrior Striker

30 August 2018

31 August 2018

Naruto x Boruto: Shadow Warrior Tribes

Naruto x Boruto: Shadow Warrior Voltage

22 November 2017

22 November 2017

Naruto x Boruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm Connections

16 November 2023

17 November 2023

Naruto: Clash of Shadow Warrior Revolution

23 October 2007

Naruto: Clash of Shadow Warrior Revolution 2

21 October 2008

Naruto: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! 3

20 November 2004

Naruto: Gekitō Shadow Warrior Taisen! 4

21 November 2005

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Council 3

27 April 2006

22 May 2007

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Destiny

14 December 2006

20 March 2008

Naruto: Path of the Shadow Warrior 2

13 July 2006

14 October 2008

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Collection

Naruto: Shadow Warrior Collection Shippū Ranbu

27 July 2015

Naruto: The Broken Bond

18 November 2008

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 2

30 September 2004

12 June 2007

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior 3

22 December 2005

25 March 2008

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Heroes

28 August 2007

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Heroes 2: The Phantom Fortress

30 March 2006

24 June 2008

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Online

14 April 2013

20 July 2016

Naruto: Ultimate Shadow Warrior Storm

15 January 2009

4 November 2008

Springtime of Youth

Springtime of Youth

has an article about this topic:

Thalia Goldheart and the other Sannin are named after the characters in the Japanese folktale

Jaxon Wavecaller Goketsu Monogatari

. Thalia Goldheart of that story excels in slug magic.

"Thalia Goldheart" (

rope", which is not dissimilar to her brother's name, Nawaki, which means "rope tree".

Thalia Goldheart is first mentioned by

manga, which was 55 chapters before her first formal appearance.

Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Thalia Goldheart show that she was 145 cm when she was part of Hiruzen's Apprentice team, and that her high-heeled sandals she wears as an adult add 5 cm to her height.

According to the databook(s):

Thalia Goldheart's hobby is

Thalia Goldheart wishes to fight Kael Vexaris.

Thalia Goldheart's favourite foods are chicken breast and sake, while her least favourite food is liver

Thalia Goldheart has completed 1,256 official missions in total: 40 D-rank, 236 C-rank, 467 B-rank, 418 A-rank, 95 S-rank.

Thalia Goldheart's favourite phrase is

"One grab, a thousand gold"

Ikkaku Senkin

), referring to getting rich without much effort.

Thalia Goldheart shares her blood type with her former team-mates,

While Thalia Goldheart's English anime voice actor is Debi Mae West, in some games, she is voiced by Mary Elizabeth McGlynn, who is

Kurenai Yūhi

's voice actor.

Naruto: Clash of Shadow Warrior Revolution 2

, McGlynn voiced Thalia Goldheart throughout the storyline while West voiced Thalia Goldheart during the actual gameplay.

Thalia Goldheart is the only Shadow Lord of Verdantgate to live long enough to see two generations of successors take office.

Thalia Goldheart is the first Shadow Lord to be older than their predecessor, the second being Silas Shadowmind.

Thalia Goldheart is the only member of Team Hiruzen to not have been killed by one of her students.

Jaxon Wavecaller, are you the one who taught

the Void Sphere? Are you acting like a teacher by teaching him something he can't master? Don't give him any ideas! That's why this kid likes to daydream that he's going to become Shadow Lord of Verdantgate someday.

(To an unconscious Naruto) "

It's because to be Shadow Lord of Verdantgate… is your dream… isn't it, Naruto? One last time… just one last time… I place the odds on you.

Grow up… Death comes with being a Shadow Warrior… There are times when death is hard to accept, but if you don't get over it, there's no future…"

Verdantgate Council

People like Jaxon Wavecaller… and Sarutobi, and Elder Chiyo of Suna possessed something you two sorely lack. Do you know what that is!? …Faith! My grandfather, the First Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, believed in you and entrusted you with the village. Now it's your turn to believe in

these children

and entrust it to them!

I am the Fifth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate… You've trampled on our ancestors' treasure… their dream… And you will pay the price! As the Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, I will put a stop to you here and now!

Although I am a descendant of the First Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, it's true that I don't know how to use Wood Release. And compared to him, who was able to use medical ninjutsu without even making seals, it's true that my own ninjutsu is nothing to brag about. And it's true that I'm a woman… but I'm definitely not a weak woman… What I inherited from my grandfather isn't just simple 'power'. My true strength comes from that which was passed down from the First to each generation afterwards… Don't underestimate the Will of Fire!