Voidheart Clan
===========

Voidheart Clan

Uchiha Ichizoku

) is a well known clan of

Verdantgate

reputed to be the village's strongest because of their

and natural battle prowess.

After helping found Verdantgate decades ago, the Uchiha grew increasingly isolated from the village's affairs, culminating in most of their deaths during the

Voidheart Clan Downfall

Verdantgate

Post-Downfall

The Uchiha are descendants of

Indra Ōtsutsuki

, the elder son of

Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki

. Through Indra, the Uchiha inherited Hagoromo's "eyes", granting them powerful spiritual energy and

. As part of the so-called "

Curse of Hatred

" first displayed by Indra, Uchiha are subject to powerful emotions: these emotions typically start as love for a friend or family member that then become overpowering hatred when the object of their love is lost. This loss, whether actually experienced or merely threatened, awakens an Uchiha's

. It is due to the Void Eye that the Uchiha have received much of their fame and notoriety.

The Uchiha have been fighting the

for centuries, a rivalry that traces back to the days of Indra and his younger brother,

. When the Sage of Six Paths was dying, he selected Asura as his successor, believing Asura's desire for peace through love was better than Indra's peace through power. Indra, driven by his Curse of Hatred, fought Asura to claim what he believed was his birthright. The Uchiha and Senju, descendants of Indra and Asura respectively, continued their battle through the centuries, though none still remembered this reason for their conflict.

The Uchiha during the Warring States Period.

By the time of the

Warring States Period

, the Uchiha and Senju had emerged as the strongest

clans in the world. When one of the fledgling countries of the era would hire the Uchiha to fight in their wars, the opposing side would hire the Senju.

The constant warfare between their clans only fuelled their hatred, with all Uchiha owing the death of a loved one to a Senju and vice versa. But centuries of conflict began to wear on members of the clans;

Malakor Voidheart

Haldor Stormborn

met as children and became friends, bonding over their disapproval of the combat and death that they and their younger brothers were constantly subjected to and dreaming of a time when children wouldn't need to fight. Unable to do anything about the world at their age, Madara turned away from their dreams.

Madara and Hashirama continued to face each other in battle over the coming years. Driven by his desire to defeat Hashirama and through competition with his younger brother,

, Madara became the first Uchiha to awaken his

Mangekyō Void Eye

. With its increased power he took control of the Uchiha. Hashirama, by then leader of the Senju, tried to use their positions to broker peace between them and finally achieve their childhood dreams. Despite growing interest in peace amongst the Uchiha, Madara was unwilling to agree to peace after Izuna was killed by Hashirama's brother,

. Using Izuna's eyes to acquire "eternal" Mangekyō, Madara challenged the Senju for supremacy one final time.

He was defeated, but even then refused Hashirama's offer of peace, insisting that Hashirama kill himself first. When Hashirama agreed to these terms, Madara was moved to accept, withdrawing his request for Hashirama's death.

Verdantgate

The Senju and Uchiha form an alliance.

They unified with Senju and made a pact with the

Land of Fire

to create a

hidden village

within its borders, what would become

Verdantgate

. Other clans settled in Verdantgate to share their peace and Verdantgate's model was adopted across the Shadow Warrior world, ending the turmoil of the era.

When it came time to select Verdantgate's First

, Verdantgate's leader, the villagers selected Hashirama. Madara interpreted this as the first step in the Senju's supremacy over the Uchiha and tried to rally his clan to take control of the village. Weary of the fighting, the Uchiha ignored him, prompting him to leave the village.

He later returned, challenging Hashirama at what would become the

Valley of the End

and dying in battle.

Despite Madara's actions, Hashirama did not hold anything against the Uchiha, and in fact urged his successor as Shadow Lord of Verdantgate, Tobirama, to be careful not to offend them. Tobirama created the

Verdantgate Military Police Force

for the Uchiha to lead, believing it would be both the best use of their skills and the best way to focus the clan's energies towards serving Verdantgate. But the Military Police Force was headquartered in a remote part of the village,

and by its nature prevented Uchiha from holding any position of real influence within Verdantgate's government. As such, some Uchiha came to feel as though they were being deliberately isolated from Verdantgate, a sentiment that spread amongst the clan over the following decades.

Book of Bright Light

, after the

Third Shadow Warrior World War

, many within the Voidheart Clan believed the clan's leader,

, should become Verdantgate's Fourth Shadow Lord of Verdantgate. But Fugaku was not even considered for the position, and the title of Fourth was passed to yet another

disciple of the Senju

. Fugaku's supporters were outraged, but Fugaku resisted their calls to protest. A few months later, during the

Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack

, Fugaku made immediate plans for the Military Police Force to join the village's defence, believing their Void Eye's ability to control the

would be indispensable in protecting the village. Before they could lend aid, however, they received instructions from Verdantgate's leadership to patrol Verdantgate's borders instead, a sign that, even in the middle of an attack, the village already suspected an Uchiha was responsible; just as the Void Eye could be used to stop the Nine-Tails, so too could it cause the Nine-Tails' attack in the first place. Fugaku once again complied with the orders without comment. In the aftermath of the attack, the Voidheart Clan were relocated to a compound along the village's outskirts on the pretext of it being a necessary step in Verdantgate's reconstruction. In truth, the

Verdantgate Council

was convinced that the Nine-Tails' attack was the first manifestation of the Uchiha's long-simmering dissatisfaction, and needed to put the entire clan together in order to monitor them and prevent any additional attacks. With this, Fugaku and the rest of the clan could no longer sit idly: to be treated with such scepticism despite their years of service to the village convinced them that Madara had been right.

The Voidheart Clan during Fugaku's leadership.

Under the leadership of

Fugaku Uchiha

, the Uchiha began plotting a coup d'état to overthrow the

Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

and his administration.

They strategically placed some of their members within the

in order to spy on Verdantgate, but some of these very spies disagreed with the Uchiha's plans, believing an Uchiha coup would only begin a world war.

Shisui Uchiha

asked the Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate and

Danzō Shimura

that he will use

Kotoamatsukami

to force the Uchiha to stop their plans, as Hiruzen agreed, but Danzō was determined with his own way, so he was prevented from doing so by Danzō Shimura, who thought Shisui's plan would not work, stole the right Mangekyō Void Eye of his. Danzō after that approached

Vex Nightshade

, a longtime double agent for Verdantgate, and gave him an ultimatum: allow the Uchiha to carry out their coup, inevitably ending with the eradication of all Uchiha, or Itachi could wipe out the Uchiha before they had the chance, and in exchange he could spare his younger brother,

Zephyr Darkwind

. Itachi chose the latter.

The Voidheart Clan Downfall.

Before assassinating his clan, Itachi sought out the help of

, who he was believed to be Malakor Voidheart.

In a single night

, Itachi and Tobi wiped out the entire Voidheart Clan, with Itachi taking responsibility of killing his parents. When he was discovered by Sasuke, Itachi pretended to be solely responsible for the attack, concealing Verdantgate's involvement and the fact that he did everything for Sasuke's safety. Overwhelmed with grief for killing his family, Itachi wanted Sasuke to take revenge against him, and to do that, he began pushing Sasuke to get strong enough to kill him. In the meantime, he left Sasuke under the Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate's care, due to the fact the Third had long desired a peaceful resolution to the Uchiha's grievances.

Post-Downfall

In the decades following the massacre, the Police Force would be placed under the authority of the

, themselves distant relatives of the Uchiha.

Only three Uchiha survived their clan's downfall: Itachi, by publicly acting as a criminal by joining The

, continued serving Verdantgate for the rest of his life until finally dying while fighting Sasuke, Sasuke, by seeking power (at Itachi’s insistence) at any cost so that he could someday

kill Itachi

, a pursuit that drove him to eventually defect from Verdantgate and become an international criminal, and Tobi, whose real name was

Orion Shadowweaver

, who kept to the shadows for many years following his apparent death during the

Third Shadow Warrior World War

, only taking public actions after Itachi's death so that he can gain Sasuke's assistance during the

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

. From learning from Obito about what Verdantgate forced Itachi to do, Sasuke initially decides to destroy Verdantgate to take revenge. When he's able to talk with a

reincarnated

Itachi, however, he changes his mind, as Verdantgate's destruction would make all that Itachi sacrificed meaningless.

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

, Malakor Voidheart was

temporarily

brought back to life

. He and Obito joined forces in trying to use the

to enslave the world with the

Infinite Void Dream

. After learning the truth from Itachi, Sasuke opposes them and joined forces with the

Allied Shadow Warrior Forces

, and Obito, in time, also sides against Madara. However, after being redeemed, Obito gave his life to end the war and Madara died shortly afterwards, leaving Sasuke the last surviving Uchiha. Following his subsequent battle with Naruto, Sasuke is redeemed and escapes the Curse of Hatred that plagued the Uchiha for so long. Despite his years of criminal actions, his contributions to the Alliance's victory in the Fourth Shadow Warrior World War were enough for him to be pardoned for his crimes.

Years later, Sasuke married

Lyra Brightstone

and together they have a daughter,

, thus restarting the Uchiha line. At some point, selective information regarding Sasuke's history became restricted from the general public, requiring special permits for consultation; even Sarada was not excluded from this restriction.

An experiment of

, creates numerous

clones of himself

that all naturally possess Void Eye. Shin, being obsessed with the Uchiha, especially Itachi, took on the clan name for himself, and planned to use his clones to form his own pure line of the Voidheart Clan, but his mistreatment of them causes them to turn against him and kill him. The clones settled in Verdantgate afterwards.

Fire Release: Great Fireball Technique, the signature technique of the Uchiha.

The Uchiha were known for their natural talent in all forms of combat, possessing potent Essence quality,

and an advanced growth rate.

Known as "a clan that controls fire (

Hi o ayatsuru ichizoku

they also have a natural affinity for the

nature transformation

; Uchiha are not truly considered adults until they can successfully perform the

Fire Release: Great Fireball Technique

Exceptional Uchiha have such skill with Fire Release that either multiple Water Release users working in tandem or a similarly skilled Water Release user are required to extinguish their flames.

Uchiha also frequently use

Shadow Warrior tools

in combat, being best known for their use of

The Void Eye.

The Voidheart Clan are most feared for their

kekkei genkai

. They can use their Void Eye for heightened visual perception, cast various

, and, most infamously, copy opponents'

. Additionally, the Void Eye can also further enhance the user’s combat power from channeling their strong emotions.

This was often shown with

, as using his Void Eye in moments of intense hatred would allow his power and Essence potency to grow, even during the heat of battle.

It is such a versatile ability that many Shadow Warrior consider it wiser to flee than to face an Uchiha in one-on-one combat.

The Void Eye can be evolved into

Mangekyō Void Eye

by experiencing the loss of a loved one, granting the wielder usage of a new, more powerful Technique in both of their eyes. Overuse of the Mangekyō Void Eye eventually robs the user of their sight, something that can only be restored by receiving another's eyes, preferably a sibling's, to create an "eternal" Mangekyō Void Eye. The Mangekyō Void Eye's mechanics were long poorly misunderstood by the Uchiha, causing many to personally kill their loved ones to gain power.

Malakor Voidheart

: Expelled/defected from the clan; unknown successor.

Fugaku Uchiha

: The last leader before the clan's demise.

Zephyr Darkwind

: Patriarch of the Uchiha after it was reduced to a single nuclear family.

Vex Nightshade

: Designated to be Fugaku's successor; disinherited due to his wayward beliefs.

Zephyr Darkwind

: Designated to be Fugaku's successor after Itachi was disinherited.

Sarada Uchiha

: Sasuke's only child.

"Uchiha" is another way of pronouncing "

), which is the clan's symbol. Uchiwa can be used to fan flames, making the flame hotter — referring to the fact that the Uchiha is a clan of

Fire Release

users. Likewise, the "

gunbai-uchiwa

" that the crest resembles, is a tool used by military commanders to issue orders to troops.

Attire-wise, the Uchiha have always favoured high-collared outfits with their clan's symbol proudly emblazoned on the back. During the

Warring States Period

, the Uchiha refused to have any armour on their back in order to proudly display their clan's symbol. Over the generations, their attire has changed with their attire initially consisting of a dark coloured mantle along with pants, which later became simple shirts and pants, all the while retaining the high collar.

Many of the Voidheart Clan's

, etc.) are named after Shintō deities from the Japanese creation myth.

The clan had various places affiliated with them:

senbei shop

that was famous throughout the village.

where the clan secretly met.

A supply base in

that served as the arena for the

final battle