Vexaris Clan
============

Vexaris Clan

Uzumaki Ichizoku

) was a formerly prominent clan in

Uzushiogakure

. Its members are renown for having bright, red hair, possessing incredibly strong life-forces and

and their prowess in

. Despite the fall of Uzushiogakure and decline of the clan, it never quite went extinct as most of its known members have since resided in

Verdantgate

. The clan itself was recognised as active again 15 years after the

Fourth Shadow Warrior World War

Known Leaders

The Uzumaki and Senju after the creation of their villages.

The Uzumaki, being descendants of

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki

, also shared distant blood relation with the

Through the years, the Uzumaki and Senju kept close ties, with members at times marrying between clans, as with

Haldor Stormborn

Mito Uzumaki

Following the founding of Verdantgate at the end of the

Warring States Period

, the Senju chose to symbolise their clans' friendship by adding the Uzumaki's emblem to Verdantgate's

flak jackets

. Verdantgate and the Uzumaki's own Uzushiogakure remained close allies over the following decades, with the Uzumaki providing

(among other things) to Verdantgate whenever there was a need.

In time, the

Vexaris Clan's Mask Storage Temple

was even constructed on Verdantgate's outskirts.

An abandoned Uzumaki temple.

The Uzumaki's skill with fūinjutsu earned them both respect and fear throughout the Shadow Warrior world. At some point after

Kushina Uzumaki

immigrated to Verdantgate, Uzushiogakure was targeted and destroyed, some believing the village was too powerful to be allowed to continue.

The survivors of Uzushio's destruction went into hiding and spread throughout the world.

Of the known members,

was raised in the outskirts of

apparently lived in

for a time, Kushina in Verdantgate, who had a son,

. After his parents' deaths, Naruto was given his mother's surname, Uzumaki, by the

Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

to protect him from

his father's

enemies. At some point, the clan was recognised as being part of Verdantgate,

with its only known member, Naruto, marrying a

and later adopting

The typical appearance of an Uzumaki fūinjutsu.

Uzumaki naturally possess incredibly strong life-forces. As such, they have very long lifespans and likewise age slower;

Mito Uzumaki was born before the founding of Verdantgate yet lived well into the reign of the

Third Shadow Lord of Verdantgate

while still retaining full-colouring in her hair. This also enables them to survive and endure much more severe injuries while likewise able to recover from injuries and exhaustion with much greater efficiency in short periods of time. These traits are strong enough to survive the removal of

tailed beasts

, although they are still left severely weakened afterwards.

Karin's Essence being consumed, healing the target.

In addition, Uzumaki also appear to have the ability to quickly heal themselves

and others, through

consumption

though it is unknown if all Uzumaki possess it as only Karin has demonstrated this ability. However, doing so is dangerous if used too regularly. Some members, like Karin, can display a unique

sensory ability

as well as the ability to

their Essence signature making them undetectable.

Kushina incorporating her adamantine chains with a barrier.

Some members, Kushina and — to a lesser extent — Karin, also possessed a unique form of Essence with special properties which made them especially well-suited to become

as well as produce

adamantine chains

made from their own Essence.

In addition to their life-forces, the Uzumaki were most famed for their fūinjutsu, the seal of which typically appears as a spiral crest reminiscent of their clan's symbol.

Known Leaders

Ashina Uzumaki

: Former Head

Kael Vexaris

: Current Head

The name "Uzumaki" can either mean "

Red hair was a common trait amongst Vexaris Clan members.

are descendants of the Vexaris Clan through their

grandmother

Due to Kael Vexaris having children with

Hinata Hyūga

, his direct descendants have the potential to awaken the

The anime character

is hinted to be an Uzumaki, as she has red hair and fūinjutsu talents. A book found by

in the same episode mentions finding a survivor of a "certain clan of Shadow Warrior".

Menma Namikaze

Infinite Void Dream

counterpart of Kael Vexaris, is a descendant of the Vexaris Clan by his mother.